The Chinook tribes greeted Lewis and Clark when they arrived at the Lower Columbia River in 1805.
The tribes helped members of the expedition through the winter, bringing food and helping with navigation.
More than 200 years after that first contact, the five tribes that now make up the Chinook Indian Nation have a constitution, annual meetings and a tribal council.
However, they are not recognized by the U.S. government.
"They say we are extinct, but my family still lives on our indigenous land," Councilwoman Kate Elliott said.
The Chinook tribes' lack of recognition could change under proposed revisions to the U.S. Interior Department's 35-year process for officially recognizing Indian tribes.
Changes include moving the earliest date from which tribes must provide documentation of their existence into the 1930s and allowing tribes to reapply for federal recognition.
Federal recognition is desirable because it makes tribal members and governments eligible for federal budget assistance, according to the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA).
A federally recognized tribe is considered a sovereign nation that has a government-to-government relationship with the United States and possesses the right to create and enforce laws, determine membership criteria and regulate activities within its jurisdiction.
For some Washington tribes, the proposed changes could make it easier to get federal recognition.
These tribes acknowledge that the changes would still mean a long road ahead in gaining the recognition they have sought for years.
"We are pleased by the proposed changes, but we know that there is still a ways to go in the process," said Sue Hall, vice chair of the Snohomish Tribe of Indians.
The received federal recognition in 2001 during the very end of the Clinton administration.
But both tribes' recognitions were quickly overturned by then-President George W. Bush's administration, which said the Duwamish had not always live in a cohesive community and the Chinooks had not existed continuously through history.
One proposed change, known as the "Part 83 process," requires tribes to show community and political influence or authority only from 1934 rather than from "historical times," the requirement in existing law.
This could be helpful to the Chinooks, since the nation has more documentation from the modern era that goes beyond its oral history, Elliott said.
" you can't expect the tribes whose treaties weren't honored to get paperwork, especially when almost everyone was sent to boarding school," Elliott said, referring to the era from the late 1800s to the 1930s when the U.S. government forcibly removed Indian children from their families and placed them in boarding schools.
"How can you tell people you can't do anything Indian, but later, when you go to file, they have to prove from 1851 or 1855 that they have been keeping documents?"
The, said Michael Willis, an attorney with the Washington, D.C., office of Hobbs, Straus, Dean & Walker LLP.
The proposed changes would also allow tribes to re-petition for recognition under certain circumstances.
In order to do so, however, tribes whose requests for federal recognition were rejected would have to obtain the consent of third parties, such as tribes that previously appealed their recognition.
" that last-minute stipulation, if it sticks and there is no waiver, is really heartbreaking," he said.
"But if there is one thing we are, we are stubborn, and that's why we're still here.
We are not going to give up.
This is just a final draft."
Duwamish Tribe Chairwoman Cecile Hansen said the proposed changes don't take away from the ultimate goal of the tribe, which is to regain the recognition they lost and won in 2001.
"No Indian person should have to prove who they are in the United States," Hansen said.
"I have been doing this for 39 years.
Why Should I have to go through another set of rules?"
The BIA will hold hearings in July for the public and federally recognized tribes to comment on the proposed changes.
Announced May 22, they are part of an effort the department says will make tribal recognition more transparent and efficient.
Professor Mohammed Dajani expected criticism when he took Palestinian students to Poland last month to visit the Auschwitz concentration camp.
But he wasn't ready for the uproar that followed.
In online comments and posts, Palestinian critics described the visit as treason.
Friends counseled the professor to keep a low profile, stay away from his college campus and think about taking a holiday abroad, he recalled.
" people said we were giving support to Zionism and promoting its propaganda, as if we were giving up on our rights," Dajani said in an interview in East Jerusalem, which Palestinians claim as the capital of a future state.
The director of the American studies program at Al Quds University, Dajani heads an organization called Wasatia, whose declared aim is to promote a culture of moderation and reconciliation among Palestinians.
He is no stranger to controversy.
DDajani said the idea of taking students to Auschwitz took shape after he made a journey to the site three years ago on a visit sponsored by The Aladdin Project.
"In my community you see a lot of denial of the Holocaust, a lot of ignorance of the Holocaust.
People don't want to understand the suffering of the other," Dajani said.
"I felt that I did not want to be a bystander, and wanted to bring more awareness and awareness among Palestinians.
Because of its crucial role in the creation of Israel, the Holocaust is freighted with political overtones in Palestinian society, where many think that their people have paid the price for the persecution of the Jews in Europe.
Palestin the war that followed the establishment of Israel. Palestinians consider their mass displacement and expulsion a "catastrophe" of similar magnitude, and they recall it in annual commemorations just as Jews will mark Holocaust Remembrance Day this year beginning at sundown Sunday.
"The Holocaust is not taught in Palestinian universities and schools," Dajani said.
"It is a history ignored, mentioned as part of a plot to establish a Jewish state in Palestine, or as Zionist propaganda with exaggerated figures."
Dajani has advocated publicly for Holocaust education among Palestinians and has devoted part of his own classes to the subject.
The trip to Auschwitz was arranged as part of a reconciliation research project sponsored by the Friedrich Schiller University in Jena, Germany.
The project was funded by the German Research Foundation, and the Israeli students and faculty are studying conflict resolution at Ben Gurion University in Beersheba.
The Palestinian visit to Auschwitz was a difficult undertaking.
Thirty people were selected from some 70 applicants, though three students from Birzeit University in the West Bank withdrew under peer pressure, Dajani said.
"We didn't want to jeopardize the visit, so we kept it very quiet," he added, noting that applications were sought "by word of mouth," and there was no prior announcement of the trip.
The itinerary included a trip to Krakow, where participants visited former Jewish neighborhoods and synagogues and learned about Jewish life before the Holocaust.
In Auschwitz, the group heard from two Holocaust survivors and a Polish guide brought by the Israelis.
"I visited the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago, but here it was different," said Salim Sweidan, a former graduate student at Al Quds.
"When you step on the ground where millions were killed, it leaves a big impression."
" people accused us of showing sympathy with the occupier, but I say no, this was sympathy with the human beings who were killed there," Sweidan added.
Nasser al-Qadi, a master's degree candidate in American studies at Al Quds, said he'd joined the trip because it was "our humanitarian duty, regardless of our rift with the Israeli side."
"We went there for education, and we believe that there are no restrictions over education," al Qadi said.
He said Israelis should recognize the trauma of displacement and expulsion that accompanied the creation of Israel.
Al, which used to promote joint academic ventures with Israelis but changed its policy, issued a statement dissociating itself from Dajani's trip.
Abdullah Dweikat wrote on the Palestinian news website Watan: "We reject the extermination of any human being because of his religion, nationality or political views, but our humanity also rejects disregarding the wounds and pain of our people.
Sweidan said that many people privately expressed support to participants, calling their visit a brave step and acknowledging that the public atmosphere had kept them from speaking out.
Dajani, a scion of a prominent Palestinian family from Jerusalem, was active in the Palestinian Fatah movement in Lebanon in the 1960s and '70s, studied later in the United States and was allowed back to his native city in 1993 to care for his father, who was ill with cancer.
He said the treatment of his father and other Arab patients at an Israeli hospital was a turning point in his attitude toward Israelis, whom he had viewed only as representatives of an oppressive occupation.
" the Holocaust, Dajani said. "The conflict with Israel has poisoned the whole attitude toward" the Holocaust, he said, adding that Palestinians perceive acknowledging the event as "undermining the national narrative."
His answer to the critics was simple.
"I'm doing it because it's the right thing to do," he said.
"I would do it again."
KANSAS City, Mo. - Three weeks ago, if you ordered a five- egg omelet from Roxanne's Cafe in the Parkville suburb of Kansas City, you would probably get a three- egg omelet instead.
Roxanne's standards are more stringent.
A three- egg omelet refers to three eggs.
No more, no less.
"I have a cook who can't control his egging.
He's not allowed to cook eggs at the moment.
I told him, 'Make two scrambled eggs for me,' and he probably had six eggs in the pan," Gray said.
That's because egg prices for Roxanne's Cafe have increased significantly in the past month.
On May 5, Gray paid $17.55 for 15 dozen eggs.
Last week, she paid $42.85.
Roxanne's Cafe is not alone.
Some supermarkets have seen the price of a dozen eggs increase from 99 cents to $3 in the past few weeks.
Cafes, restaurants and bakeries around the nation are feeling the pain from recent outbreaks of avian influenza, or bird flu, which is spreading through the Midwest.
" is the most devastating foreign animal disease that has happened in the U.S. for any species," said Jo Manhart, executive director of the Missouri Egg Council.
Farmers have lost 47 million hens and turkeys since the virus started spreading a few months ago.
The top egg-producing state in the country, Iowa, has been hardest hit.
More than 30 million hens have been affected in Iowa.
In Minnesota, almost 9 million birds, mostly turkeys, have been infected with the virus.
More than 53,000 birds in Arkansas and 40,000 birds in Missouri have been affected.
In Kansas, only 10 birds were infected in a backyard flock.
Despite the relatively small outbreak, last week the Kansas Department of Agriculture banned chickens, turkeys and other live birds from appearing in state and county fairs.
The outbreak has cut egg production.
Last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture lowered its domestic production forecast to 95.9 billion.
The virus has struck at a time when eggs were enjoying relative popularity in the food market; last year, nearly 100 billion eggs were produced in the U.S.
Consumers have become increasingly concerned with protein-rich diets, and last year each person ate a 30-year high for egg consumption.
"Prior to this outbreak, eggs were on a roll," said Kevin Burkum, the American Egg Board's senior vice president of marketing.
Roxanne's, most likely like many cafes, is attempting to compensate for high egg prices.
In addition to portion control in her egg-heavy meals, owner Gray changed the daily specials to include catfish and goulash, which do not contain eggs.
Gray winced at the thought of the last resort: raising menu prices.
Prior to the outbreak, the wholesale price of a dozen eggs was 63 cents.
That has almost quadrupled to $2.35, according to Brian Moscogiuri, a food industry reporter for Urner Barry.
Besides bakeries and restaurants, supermarkets are also struggling with the effects of the virus.
Some of these egg products include the usual suspects - bakery items and ice cream, for example - but other products are also made with egg products, such as mayonnaise, marshmallow cream, shampoo and makeup.
Hen House said its cost has gone up about 40 percent in the last couple of weeks, and consumers have had to pass some of that on.
Consumers have taken notice of this.
For her egg supply, Rachel Ciordas, a blogger and baker from the Kansas City area, has traded in the farmers market for the supermarket.
"Now it's the same price or less expensive to buy from a farmer."
Local egg farmers remain largely unaffected by the drop in output from larger egg producers.
Campo Lindo Farms, a farm north of Kansas City with 3,000 laying hens, said avian flu in one of its flocks would have put it out of business.
However, Campo Lindo has not increased prices to take advantage of the lagging production numbers of other companies, said Carol Maddick, owner of Campo Lindo.
It is not entirely clear how the virus transferred from wild birds, which are carriers of the H5N2 virus, to poultry packed in enclosed facilities. It is not clear how the virus transferred from wild birds, which are carriers of the H5N2 virus, to poultry packed in enclosed facilities.
Conventional wisdom states that the virus is transmitted through physical contact such as the droppings of birds.
But Hong
Heat kills the virus, and outbreaks are expected to slow down during the summer months under the scorching sun.
Xin hopes that by the time the summer gives way to autumn and wild birds migrate down through the Midwestern states once again, enough research will have been done to prevent further outbreaks.
However, there are no guarantees at all.
Cook weren't too worried about how many eggs they scooped into the frying pan, and proprietor Roxanne Gray happily permitted it.
SAN JOSE, Calif. - Scheming to rearrange the heavens, scientists are busy planning how to pluck, push and park a spinning asteroid between here and the moon.
While most of us hope to dodge space rocks, NASA has unveiled an ambitious, $ 105 million plan to drag one closer to Earth.
It's the Space Age equivalent of bringing the mountain to Muhammad and a first step in our future journey to Mars.
"Our goal is to go out there and rendezvous - then get it into the hands of the people who can understand it," said David Korsmeyer, director of the NASA Ames Research Center, which will contribute to the project.
Asteroids command our respect because a big one can play us like a billiard ball.
February's twofer - a little one rocked Russia and a larger one was a near miss - only added to the stress.
But they're also valuable, and pursuing one might launch us into deeper space.
This is because we will need a vehicle much better than a rocket driven by fuel.
With an infusion of new NASA money, engineers hope to design a futuristic solar-electric vehicle that would make a slow, steady and sustainable trip to find an asteroid.
It's the journey, not just the destination, that thrills researchers.
After finding a suitable space rock orbiting our way, the spaceship may push, tug or harpoon the asteroid.
Or it could stuff the rock into a large bag, or perhaps lasso it in some 21st century variation of a Roy Rogers rope trick.
"As a space-faring country it has been more than 40 years since we have been to deep space," out where asteroids lurk, said Stanford University aeronautics professor G. Scott Hubbard.
"We have to regain our "chops," " he said.
"It's a demonstration of the future of space exploration technologies."
The "Asteroid Retrieval Mission" is still under development in Washington, D.C., where it is a major new goal for an agency that has grounded a moon-landing plan and retired the shuttle fleet.
Suggested last year by the Keck Institute for Space Studies at the California Institute of Technology, the idea has found favor at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
In his only space speech, President Barack Obama pledged to land on an asteroid by 2025.
There is a cooler reception in the Congress.
Developing the know-how required to bring home an asteroid will greatly increase prices, warned Stanford's Hubbard.
The $ 105 million is just a down payment on a project that could cost billions of dollars.
"I would caution the developers to be very clear-minded and open-eyed about what the ultimate cost might be," he said.
In the summer, Ames and other NASA research centers will gather their scientists to work out the details.
At Ames, "we can provide tools that make the mission more successful," Korsmeyer said.
For example, he said, Ames scientists could devise tools such as their CheMin device aboard the Mars rover that analyzes the composition of Martian rocks, for example, Ames scientists could devise tools similar to their CheMin device aboard the Mars rover that analyzes the composition of Martian rocks.
Ames can also build sensors to help find an asteroid.
Most asteroids live too far away to be helpful when they're not crashing into, for instance, Russia.
Some of them are huge, and some are huge.
But small ones - say, the size of a dump truck - may be practical to grab using unmanned spaceships, NASA says.
Asteroids are the rubble left from the formation of our solar system about 4.6 billion years ago and hold valuable metals and clues about our origins.
Although the main goal is not to protect the Earth from an errant space rock, the technology developed "could prove useful in diverting a larger, rogue asteroid," said planetary scientist and former astronaut Tom Jones.
The hunt will not be simple: The perfect asteroid will be difficult to find because it will be too small to reflect light.
In addition, it doesn't want to be captured.
NASA calls it an "uncooperative object."
It will be moving at 17,000 mph, spinning like a top and happy in its own orbit.
It may not even be solid, like granite, but just a tumbling bunch of rocky ice.
Then there's the problem of catching it.
Kors Meyer calls it a complicated "math game."
Picture trying to catch a ball on a Ferris wheel.
Once captured, it would be slowly pulled or pushed close to the moon.
There, remote-controlled ships would come to chip off chunks for research.
Astronomers would eventually visit it.
"It's not a small thing," Kors Meyer said.
"You are lining up a whole set of moving balls to try to put one in the pocket.
On June 28, 2009, Stephen Hawking, the world-famous physicist, threw a party at the University of Cambridge, complete with iced champagne, balloons and hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors
Everyone was invited, but no one showed up.
Hawking had expected as much, because he only sent out invitations after his party had ended.
It was, he said, "a welcome reception for future time travelers," a tongue-in-cheek experiment to reinforce his 1992 conjecture that travel into the past is effectively impossible.
Haw may be on the wrong side of history.
Recent experiments offer tentative support for the feasibility of time travel.
The study cuts to the core of our understanding of the universe, and the resolution of the possibility of time travel, far from being a topic worthy only of science fiction, would have profound implications for practical applications such as quantum cryptography and computing.
The source of time travel speculation lies in the fact that our best physical theories do not seem to prohibit traveling backward through time.
The feat is based on Einstein's theory of general relativity, which describes gravity as the warping of spacetime by matter and energy.
An extremely powerful gravitational field, such as that produced by a spinning black hole, could in principle warp the fabric of existence.
This would create a "closed timelike curve," or CTC, a loop that could be traversed to go back in time.
Hawking and many other physicists find CTCs abhorrent, because any macroscopic object traveling through one would inevitably create paradoxes.
In a model proposed by the theorist David Deutsch in 1991, however, the paradoxes created by CTCs could be avoided at the quantum scale because of the behavior of fundamental particles, which follow only fuzzy rules of probability rather than strict determinism.
"It's intriguing that you've got general relativity predicting these paradoxes, but then you consider them in quantum mechanical terms and the paradoxes go away," says University of Queensland physicist Tim Ralph.
"It makes you wonder whether this is important in terms of formulating a theory that unifies quantum mechanics with general relativity."
Recently Ralph and his PhD student Martin Ringbauer led a group that experimentally simulated Deutsch's model of CTCs for the first time, testing and confirming many aspects of the two-decades-old theory.
The findings are published in Nature Communications.
Much of their simulation revolved around investigating how Deutsch's model deals with the "grandfather paradox," a hypothetical scenario in which someone uses a CTC to murder her own grandfather, thus preventing her own later birth.
Deutsch's quantum solution to the grandfather paradox works like this:
Instead of a human being traversing a CTC to kill her ancestor, imagine that a fundamental particle goes back in time to flip a switch.
If the switch is flipped, the machine emits a particle into the CTC; if the switch is not flipped, the machine emits nothing.
There is no a priori deterministic certainty of the emission of the particle, only a distribution of probabilities.
Deutsch's insight was to postulate self-consistency in the quantum realm, to insist that any particle entering one end of a CTC must emerge at the other end with identical properties.
Therefore, a particle emitted by the machine with a probability of one half would enter the CTC and come out the other end to flip the switch with a probability of one half.
If the particle were a person, she would be born with a one-half probability of killing her grandfather, giving her grandfather a one-half probability of escaping death at her hands.
Strange though it may be, this solution is in accordance with the known laws of quantum mechanics.
In their new simulation Ralph, Ringbauer and their colleagues studied Deutsch's model using a quantum system that they argue is mathematically equivalent to a single photon traversing a CTC.
"We encoded their polarization so that the second one acts as a past incarnation of the first," Ringbauer said.
So instead of sending a person through a time loop, they created a stunt double of the person and ran him through a time-loop simulator to see if the doppelganger exactly resembled the original person.
By measuring the polarization states of the second photon after its interaction with the first, the team successfully demonstrated Deutsch's self-consistency in action.
"Of course, we're not really sending anything back in time, but the simulation allows us to study weird evolutions normally not allowed in quantum mechanics."
Those "weird evolutions" enabled by a CTC, Ringbauer notes, would have remarkable practical applications, such as the cloning of the quantum states of fundamental particles.
"If you can clone quantum states," he says, "you can violate the Heisenberg uncertainty principle," which comes in handy in quantum cryptography because it prohibits precise measurements of certain types of paired variables, such as momentum and position.
"But if you clone that system, you can measure one quantity in the first and the other quantity in the second.
"In the presence of CTCs, quantum mechanics allows one to perform very powerful information-processing tasks, much more than we believe classical or even normal quantum computers could do," says Todd Brun, a physicist at the University of Southern California.
"If the Deutsch model is correct, then this experiment faithfully simulates what an actual CTC could do.
However, this experiment cannot test the Deutsch model itself; that could only be done with access to a real CTC."
Deutsch's model is not the only one around, however.
In 2009 Seth Lloyd, a theorist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, proposed an alternative, less radical model of CTCs that resolves the grandfather paradox using quantum teleport and a technique called post-selection.
With Canadian collaborators, Lloyd went on to perform successful laboratory simulations of his model in 2011.
"Deutsch's theory has a strange effect of destroying correlation," Lloyd says.
"That is, a time traveler who emerges from a Deutschian CTC enters a universe that has nothing to do with the future.
By contrast, post-selected CTCs preserve correlation, so that the time traveler returns to the same universe that she remembers in the past.
This property of Lloyd's model would make CTCs much less powerful for data processing, although still much better than what computers could achieve in typical areas of spacetime.
"The classes of problems our CTCs could help solve are roughly equivalent to finding needles in haystacks," Lloyd says.
"But a computer in a Deutschian CTC could solve why haystacks exist.
Lloyd, however, acknowledges the speculative nature of CTCs.
"I don't really know which model is right.
Perhaps both of them are wrong," he said.
Of course, he adds, the other possibility is that Hawking is right, "that CTCs simply do not and cannot exist."
Time-travel party planners should save the champagne for themselves - their hoped-for future guests seem unlikely to come.
If finned swimming animals evolved on an alien planet, what would they look like?
A lot like the ones on Earth, a team of scientists says.
A new study that looked at the motion of certain swimming species in the ocean found a surprising and elegant ratio in how they move.
This ratio, described in the journal PLOS Biology, reveals a surprising case of convergent evolution over a diverse array of unrelated animals.
There are striking similarities in the way animals move through fluids (whether air or water).
It's part of a trend toward understanding the detailed physics of how animals move. Jack Costello, a marine biologist at Providence College in Rhode Island, said he may use these rules of movement to design more agile robots.
"I think it's part of a growing understanding of biological motion.
For many years
A group of researchers at Northwestern University first began to wonder about common principles of movement after studying the white ghost knifefish.
The black ghost knifefish lives in freshwater streams in South America, and it primarily moves around using an undulating fin attached to its underside.
This is unlike more well-known fish like trout or salmon, which sweep a tail (and the rear portion of their bodies) back and forth.
Instead, the knifefish creates a wave that runs down its thin fin, which runs most of the length of its body.
There's a whole host of sea critters who move like this, called fin swimmers; some have a pair, one on each side, while others have a single fin running along the length of their bodies.
Sometimes (in the case of the squid, a relative of the cuttlefish) it makes them look like they're wearing a fluttering tutu.
DuringDuring their previous work on the ghost black knifefish, the scientists noticed that the fish's maximum speed occurred when a total of two waves of motion could fit across the length of its fin.
The scientists studied 22 different species of finned swimmers, using lab studies, computer modeling and video recordings to determine what pattern, if any, might exist.
They even trimmed the fin on a fin-swimming robot, which looks like a torpedo with a ribbon strung underneath.
They found that there was a pattern in their movement, though it wasn't what they expected.
As it moved, each animal followed a specific pattern: the ratio between the amplitude (or height) of each wavelength and the length of each undulating wavelength was about 20 to 1.
Every full back-and-forth wiggle of the fish's fin was 20 times as long as the wide wiggle.
For each species studied, including skates, rays, the cuttlefish and the Persian carpet flatworm, that ratio remained 20 to 1.
"We found in every animal for which data are available, our prediction was correct," said Neelesh Patankar, one of the lead authors on the work.
The researchers believe that this pattern of movement has arisen at least eight times, because it maximizes the swimmer's ability to move efficiently with speed.
There could be a thousand more finned-swimming species that have the same ratio, the researchers said.
"Physics puts constraints on the kinds of solutions nature can have and survive," Patankar said.
If complex alien life were ever to be found on another planet using a fin to swim, this same ratio would probably emerge, said Malcolm MacIver, a bio-engineer at Northwestern.
"There are only a few ways in which animals can move effectively," MacIver said.
If those alien animals were moving through liquid water on another planet, then the same fluid constraints apply.
"The water is the water," he said.
The findings could help scientists learn how to better build underwater robots that swim quickly and efficiently, the researchers said.
Such skills are critical, for example, when sending underwater vehicles to deal with oil spills. These animals can't yet swim with the level of precision that these underwater vehicles can.
"There's a real need for underwater robots that can move with more agility," MacIver said.
Washington President Barack Obama authorized U.S. airstrikes in northern Iraq Thursday night, warning they would be launched if needed to defend Americans from advancing Islamic militants and protect civilians under siege.
In a televised late-night statement from the White House, Obama said American military planes had already carried out airdrops of humanitarian aid to tens of thousands of Iraqi religious minorities surrounded by militants and desperately in need of food and water.
" America is coming to help," he said.
His announcement threatened a renewal of U.S. military involvement in the country's long-running sectarian conflict.
The announcement marked the deepest American involvement in Iraq since U.S. troops left the country in late 2011 after nearly a decade of war.
Obama has staked much of his legacy as president on ending what he has called the "dumb war" in Iraq.
The food and water supplies were delivered to tens of thousands of Yazidis who were trapped on a mountain without water and food.
The Yazidis, who follow an ancient religion with ties to Zoroastrianism, fled their homes after the Islamic State group issued an ultimatum to convert to Islam or face death.
Obama said the airdrops were made at the Iraqi government's request.
Mindful of the public's aversion to another lengthy war, Obama acknowledged that the prospect of a new round of U.S. military action would be a cause for concern among many Americans.
He vowed not to put American combat troops back on the ground in Iraq and said there was no military solution to the crisis.
"As commander in chief, I will not allow the United States to be dragged into another war in Iraq," Obama said.
However, he outlined a rationale for airstrikes if the Islamic State militants advance on American troops in the northern city of Irbil and the U.S. Consulate there in the Kurdish region of Iraq.
The troops were sent to Iraq earlier this year as part of the White House response to the swift movement of the extremist group across the border with Syria and into Iraq.
"When the lives of American citizens are at risk, we will take action," Obama said.
"That's my duty as commander in chief."
He said he had also authorized the use of targeted military strikes if necessary to protect civilians from Iraqi security forces.
He addressed the nation only after the American military aircraft had safely left the drop site in northern Iraq to deliver food and water to the Iraqis.
The Pentagon said the airdrops were carried out by one C-17 and two C-130 cargo planes that delivered a total of 72 bundles of water and food.
They were accompanied by two F/A-18 fighters from an undisclosed air base.
The planes delivered 5,300 gallons of fresh drinking water and 8,000 pre-packaged meals at a low altitude.
The as part of the American mandate to assist around the world when the U.S. has the unique capabilities to help avert a massacre.
In
Officials said the United States was ready to undertake additional humanitarian airdrops if needed, but did not say how soon such missions might take place.
Administration officials said unilateral U.S. strikes would be consistent with international law in part because Washington has asked the Iraqi government to take military action.
They also said Obama had the constitutional authority to act on his own in order to protect the rights of American citizens.
He also authorized strikes in Syria last summer after chemical weapons were deployed, but those attacks were never carried out, in part because of an international agreement to strip Syria of its stockpiles of the deadly gases.
The president has also faced persistent calls to take military action in Syria on humanitarian grounds, given that more than 170,000 people have been killed.
Critics argue that Obama's cautious approach to Syria has allowed the Islamic State group to grow strong enough to move across the border with Iraq and make swift gains.
Republican Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina praised Obama's proposed actions Thursday, but said much more would be needed.
"This should include the provision of military and other assistance to our Kurdish, Iraqi, and Syrian partners" who are fighting the militants, support for Sunni Iraqis who seek to resist the extremists, they said in a statement.
Obama dispatched about 800 U.S. forces to Iraq earlier this year, with those troops largely split between joint operation centers in Irbil and Baghdad.
More than half are providing security for the U.S. embassy.
Officials said there were no plans to evacuate those Americans from Iraq but that the United States was conducting enhanced intelligence flights over Irbil.
If the president were to order actual airstrikes in Iraq, it's all but certain he would proceed without formal congressional approval.
Lawmakers left town last week for a five-week recess, and there was no indication that they would return.
Officials said the White House was in contact throughout Thursday with some lawmakers, including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky, and House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio.
Some Republicans have expressly called for the president to take action and have said he doesn't need the approval of lawmakers.
BOSTON - months after winning a national championship, Harvard's debate team has fallen to a group of New York prisoners.
The took place at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility, a maximum-security prison where inmates have formed a popular debate club and can take courses taught by faculty from nearby Bard College.
Last month, they invited the Ivy League undergraduates and this year's national debate champions over for a friendly contest.
The Harvard debate team
The inmates are building a reputation of their own.
Since they started a debate club, the prisoners have beaten teams from the University of Vermont and the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.
The rivalry with West Point, which is now an annual event, has developed into a rivalry.
At Bard, those who help teach the inmates aren't particularly surprised by their success.
"Students in the prison are held to the exact same standards, levels of rigor and expectation as students on Bard's main campus," said Max Kenner, executive director of the Bard Prison Initiative.
"These students are serious.
They are not condescended to by their school."
Against Harvard, the inmates were tasked with defending a position they opposed: They had to argue that public schools should be allowed to turn away students whose parents entered the United States illegally.
The inmates brought up arguments that the Harvard team had not considered.
Three students responded, and a panel of neutral judges declared the team victorious.
"The fact that we won is nice, but it isn't the most important thing," said Kenner, adding that the club is meant to help students articulate what they've learned.
Students on the Harvard team weren't immediately available for comment, but shortly after the loss, they posted a comment on a team Facebook page.
"There are few teams we are prouder of having lost a debate to than the phenomenally intelligent and articulate team we faced this weekend," they wrote.
"We are very grateful to Bard and the Eastern New York Correctional Facility for organizing this event and for the work they do."
Inmates can earn different degrees through the program, which is taught primarily by Bard college.
About 15 percent of the inmates at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility in Napanoch are women.
Graduates have continued their studies at Columbia and Yale, Kenner said.
While in prison, they learn without the help of the Internet, relying instead on the college's resources.
"They take advantage of every chance they have," Kenner said.
MA. As U.S. President Barack Obama's announcement that he was postponing U.S. missile strikes against the Syrian regime hit the Zaatari refugee camp, so did anger and fear.
"If they're going to strike, let them strike once and for all and bring the regime down," said Um Hafiz, who fled with her husband and five children from their village near Syria's southern city of Daara in January.
Other residents said Sunday that Obama's decision to first seek congressional authorization for a U.S. military operation would so embolden Syrian President Bashar Assad that he might even dare to attack Zaatari, a major recruiting ground for rebel fighters about five miles inside Jordan.
"We were happy when we first heard that the U.S. would attack, but then when it was postponed, we were afraid that Bashar would attack the camp," said Raad Zoubi, 23, who has lived in the dusty, sun-stricken swath of tents.
"People are angry, but if the Americans attack, we will be glad they do."
Expectations ran high in Zaatari late last week as the United States signaled that cruise-missile strikes were imminent, asserting that it had determined "with high confidence" that the Assad regime was behind an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack on a rebel-held Damascus suburb.
Camp residents heard Obama announce his decision to postpone the operation on live broadcasts of his announcement Saturday, carried by Arabic-language television channels received over the satellite dishes.
" said Zoubi, 23, a baker from Taybeh, a village outside Daara, where the anti-Assad protests that led to the brutal civil war erupted on March 18, 2011.
Coming from a country that the Assad family has ruled for four decades, it's doubtful that most of the camp's more than 120,000 residents understood Obama's decision to seek congressional approval.
FadilIssa, 35, who has been in Zaatari since leaving his village near Daara eight months ago, said many refugees think Obama called off the U.S. strikes for fear they could have triggered hostilities between the United States and Iran.
"People are disappointed with this postponement.
They don't know why he's afraid of Iran," he said.
As refugees tried to make sense of Obama's decision, life continued uninterrupted in Zaatari.
including the nightly return to Syria by refugees so tired of the camp's heat, filth, tedium and crime that they willingly brave the risky border crossing to return to old homes or seek new ones.
"What's the worst that can happen?
"We would rather die in our homeland," said Ahmad Mohammad Hussein, 28, an electrician who spent a year in prison after being arrested by Assad's security forces during the anti-Assad protests in Daara.
"We can't take it here anymore."
Hus Hussein waited in the sultry late afternoon heat with scores of other men, women and children for the buses that would leave them at unofficial border crossings.
From there, they were to walk to Syrian territory controlled by the Free Syrian Army, a loose amalgam of rebel groups.
Buses are limited
So the crowd charged the vehicles as they pulled up in clouds of choking dust, pushing and shoving through the doors.
Jordanian security forces stood by in three armored cars, on guard against serious violence.
The buses were preceded by a truck hauling a trailer with stairs that swung down from the rear and windows cut into its sides.
It appeared to be bringing rebel fighters back into Syria as only men and teenage boys swarmed into the trailer, some pushing their bags through the windows before clambering through.
"It's unbearable to live here," said Hafiz as she watched the scene, her daughters clustered around her.
"Even with all the explosions, it's better over there.
We're not afraid.
Whatever God has written for us will come to pass."
PHILADELPHILADELPHIA - Call it "The Mystery of Oblong Blobs."
In the prevailing scientific view, they are microscopic remains of ancient pigment granules that offer clues to winged dinosaurs' colors.
But a new study by a graduate of Drexel University proposes a different explanation, one that has ruffled a few feathers.
Alison E. Moyer, now a Ph.D. student at North Carolina State University, says the cigar-shaped "microbodies," just one-millionth of a meter long, might simply be impressions left by very old bacteria.
Their shape and size, among other features, do not rule out either interpretation, she says.
"You have these little structures that look very similar, and so we have to be careful," said Moyer, lead author of the paper published this month in the journal Scientific Reports.
The study has prompted a heated social media reaction from one researcher who favors the interpretation that the shapes are pigment granules, or melanosomes.
Others in the field have been more accepting of Moyer's work, recognizing it as a useful challenge to established views.
This is perhaps more prevalent in paleontology than in some other fields of science, as the only surefire way to answer certain questions about the ancient world would be to travel back in a time machine.
Failing that, Moyer discovered a living time machine: a chicken.
Paleontologists consider birds to be modern dinosaurs, so Moyer grew bacteria on chicken feathers.
She compared the bacteria with the pigment granules inside the feathers, as well as with the oblong impressions found in winged dinosaurs.
The size, shape, and distribution of the fossil impressions suggested that they were pigment granules, though it is still possible that they were bacteria, she said.
Her work was supervised by Mary H. Schweitzer, N.C. State paleontologist.
Among her co-authors was Ken Lacovara, associate professor of geology and paleontology and paleontology at Drexel.
Matthew D. Shawkey, an associate professor at the University of Akron's integrated bioscience program, said on Twitter that the new research was "bad science."
Shawkey, who was involved in a 2012 study that determined the feathers of the winged dinosaur Archaeopteryx were black, had several objections to Moyer's paper.
Among them was the juxtaposition of two images - one showing cigar-shaped bacteria on a chicken feather, the other depicting similar-shaped impressions found in Archaeopteryx's fossil feather.
At a glance, the two images look about the same size.
Shawkey's beef is that the images are reproduced at different scale (as indicated in the fine print) and that the impressions in the fossils are four times as long as the bacteria on the chicken feathers.
"That's not a good way to put your trust in your paper," Shawkey said.
Moyer counters that the bacteria are closer to twice the size of the fossil impressions.
(To the untrained eye, the graininess of the picture makes it a little difficult to tell who is correct.)
In any case, the size of the supposed melanosomes falls well within the range of known bacteria, Moyer said.
Another reason why the matter remains up in the air is that the chemical analysis of the fossil feathers has been inconclusive, she said.
While Shawkey fired off more than a dozen tweets objecting to the paper, another scientist had a more receptive attitude to the work of Moyer and her colleagues.
"It's always good to take one step back," said Johan Lindgren, an associate professor at Sweden's Lund University.
"What they're saying is we need more information, and I think that's fair."
How did the other scientists conclude anything about the color of dinosaur feathers, if all that remained of the purported pigment granules was their fossilized imprints?
The key is their shape.
By looking at what granule shapes were associated with which colors in modern birds, the scientists concluded that various winged dinosaurs were black, gray or brown.
Or maybe not, maybe not.
Moyer said, "There's a lot of work to be done."
