Chinook tribes greeted Lewis and Clark when they arrived in the Lower Columbia River in 1805.
The tribes helped members of the expedition by bringing them food and helping with navigation.
More than 200 years after the first contact, the five tribes have a constitution, a tribal council and annual meetings.
They are not recognized by the U.S. government.
"They say we are extinct, but my family lives on our land," said Councilwoman Kate Elliott.
proposed revisions to the 35-year process the U.S. Interior Department uses to officially recognize Indian tribes.
Some changes include moving the earliest date from which tribes must provide documentation of their existence into the 1930s and allowing tribes to reapply for federal recognition under certain conditions.
Federal recognition is desirable because it makes tribal members and governments eligible for federal budget assistance, according to the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA).
A federally recognized tribe is considered a sovereign nation with the right to create and enforce laws, regulate activities within its jurisdiction and determine membership criteria.
The proposed changes could make it easier for some Washington tribes to get federal recognition.
These tribes acknowledge that the changes mean a long road ahead to recognition, which they have sought for years.
"We are pleased by the proposed changes, but we know that there is still a way to go," said Sue Hall, vice chair of the Snohomish Tribe of Indians, which has fought for federal recognition.
The Chinooks received federal recognition in 2001 during the very end of the Clinton administration.
But both tribes' recognitions were quickly overturned by then-President George W. Bush's administration, which said the Duwamish had had a temporary lapse in tribal government and the Chinooks had not existed continuously through history.
One change requires tribes to show community and political influence or authority only from 1934 rather than from "historical times," the requirement in existing law.
This could help Chinooks since the nation has more documentation that goes beyond oral history, Elliott said, and will help "level the playing field" for all tribes.
"You can't expect the tribes whose treaties weren't honored to get paperwork, especially when almost everyone was sent to boarding school," Elliott said, referring to the era from the late 1800s to the 1930s, when the U.S. government removed Indian children from their families and sent them to boarding schools.
"How can you tell people you can't do anything Indian but then have to prove from 1851 or 1855 that they were keeping documents?"
The current rule forces tribes to relive "more difficult times in their history," said Michael Willis, an attorney with Hobbs, Straus, Dean & Walker LLP, which focuses on legal issues.
The bill would also allow tribes, under certain circumstances, to re-petition for recognition.
However, tribes whose requests for federal recognition had been rejected would have to get the consent of third parties that previously appealed their recognition.
"That last-minute stipulation, if it sticks, is really heartbreaking," said Elliott.
"If there is one thing we are, we are stubborn, which is why we are here.
We are not giving up.
This is a final draft only."
Duwamish Tribe Chairwoman Cecile Hansen said the proposed changes don't take away from the tribe's ultimate goal.
"No Indian should have to prove who they are in the United States," Hansen said.
"I have done it for 39 years.
Why should I have to go through a new set of rules?"
The BIA will hold hearings in July for tribes and the public to comment on the changes.
They are part of an effort to make tribal recognition more efficient and transparent.
JERUSALEM - Professor Mohammed Dajani expected criticism when he went to Poland to visit the site of the Auschwitz concentration camp.
But he wasn't ready for the uproar that came after.
In online posts, Palestinian critics described the visit as treason.
Acquaintances counseled the professor to keep a low profile, stay away from campus and consider a vacation abroad, he said.
"People said we were giving support to Zionism and promoting its propaganda, as if we were giving up our rights," Dajani said in an interview in East Jerusalem, the city's Arab side.
The director of the American studies program at Al Quds University, Dajani heads an organization called Wasatia, which seeks to promote a culture of moderation and reconciliation among Palestinians - values often found in short supply.
He is no stranger to trouble.
Dajani said the idea took shape after he made a journey to Auschwitz three years ago on a visit sponsored by The Aladdin Project, a Paris-based organization that promotes understanding between Muslims and Jews.
"In my community, you see a lot of denial of the Holocaust.
People don't want to recognize the suffering," Dajani said.
"I felt that I did not want to be a bystander and wanted to bring more awareness of this issue among Palestinians."
The Holocaust is freighted with political overtones in Palestinian society, where many think that their people paid the price for the persecution of Jews in Europe.
Palestinians consider their mass displacement and expulsion in the war that followed the establishment of Israel a "catastrophe" of similar magnitude, and recall it in annual commemorations.
"The Holocaust is not taught in Palestinian schools," said Dajani.
It is a history ignored, mentioned as part of a plot to create a Jewish state in Palestine or as Zionist propaganda."
Dajani has advocated for Holocaust education among Palestinians and devoted part of his class to the subject.
The trip to Auschwitz was part of a research project sponsored by the Friedrich Schiller University in Jena, Germany, which also included a visit to Deheishe, a Palestinian refugee camp in the West Bank.
The project was funded by the German Research Foundation, and the students are studying conflict resolution at Ben Gurion University in Beersheba.
Organizing a Palestinian visit to Auschwitz was a difficult task.
Thirty people were selected from some 70 applicants, though three withdrew under peer pressure, Dajani said.
"We didn't want to jeopardize the visit, so we kept it very quiet," he said, noting that applications were sought "by word of mouth." There was no prior announcement of the trip.
The group went to Krakow, where they learned about Jewish life before the Holocaust, visiting former Jewish neighborhoods.
In Auschwitz, the group heard from two Israelis and a Polish guide.
"I visited the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago, but here it was different," said Salim Sweidan, who joined the trip.
"When you step on soil it leaves a big impression."
"People accused us of showing sympathy for the occupier but I say no, this was for the human beings killed there," he said.
Nasser al-Qadi, a master's candidate in American studies at Al Quds, said he joined the trip because it was "our humanitarian duty."
"We went there for education and we believe there is no limit on education," al Qadi said.
He said Israelis should recognize the similar trauma of displacement that came with the creation of Israel.
Al Quds University, which used to promote joint academic ventures with Israelis but changed its policy, issued a statement dissociating itself from Dajani's trip, warning him to make it clear to students.
Abdullah Dweikat, a columnist for the Palestinian news website Watan, said: "We reject the extermination of any human being because of his religion, nationality or political views, but we also reject ignoring the injuries and pain of our people.
Sweidan called their visit a brave step and acknowledged that the public atmosphere had kept them from speaking out.
Dajani, a scion of a prominent Palestinian family from Jerusalem, was active in the 1960s and '70s, studied in the United States and was allowed back to his native city in 1993 to care for his father, who was ill with cancer.
He said the treatment of his father and other Arab patients at an Israeli hospital was a turning point in his view of Israelis, whom he'd seen as representatives of an occupation.
"The conflict with Israel has poisoned the whole attitude toward" the Holocaust, Dajani said, adding that Palestinians do not accept the event.
His response to critics was simple.
"I do it because it's the right thing to do," he said.
"I would do it again.
Three weeks ago, if you ordered a three- egg omelet from Roxanne's Cafe in the Kansas City suburb of Parkville, you probably got a five- egg omelet.
Today, Roxanne's is better.
A three- egg omelet means three eggs.
No more or less.
"I have a cook I can't control with his egg.
He's not allowed to cook an egg right now.
I told him to make two scrambled eggs for me and he probably had six," Gray said.
That's because egg prices at Roxanne's Cafe have increased in the past month.
Gray paid $17.55 per 15 dozen eggs on May 5.
She paid $42.85 last week.
Roxanne's Cafe is not alone.
Some supermarkets have seen prices go from 99 cents to $3 in the past few weeks.
Cafes, restaurants and bakeries around the nation are feeling the pain of recent bird flu, or avian influenza, expanding through the Midwest.
"This is the most devastating foreign animal disease that has happened in the U.S. for any species," said Jo Manhart, of the Missouri Egg Council.
47 million hens and turkeys have been lost since the virus began spreading.
Iowa, the country's top egg-producing state, is hit the hardest.
More than 30 million hens in Iowa are affected.
Almost 9 million birds, mostly turkeys, have caught the virus.
More than 53,000 birds have been affected in Missouri and 40,000 in Arkansas.
The virus hit only 10 birds in a backyard flock in Kansas.
Despite the relatively small outbreak, last week the Kansas Department of Agriculture banned chickens, turkeys and other live birds from appearing at state and county fairs.
The series of outbreaks have cut production.
Last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture cut its production forecast for this year to 95.9 billion.
The virus has struck at a time when eggs enjoy relative popularity; last year, the U.S. produced nearly 100 billion eggs.
Consumers are more concerned about protein-rich diets, and last year each person ate 263 eggs, a 30-year high for egg consumption.
"Prior to this outbreak, eggs were on a roll," said Kevin Burkum, the American Egg Board's senior vice president.
Roxanne's is probably trying to compensate for high prices for eggs.
Owner Gray changed the daily specials to include meals that don't include eggs, such as goulash and catfish.
Gray winced at the thought of the last resort: raising the menu price.
At the time, the wholesale price of a dozen breaking eggs was 63 cents.
That has almost quadrupled to $2.35, according to Brian Moscogiuri, a market reporter for Urner Barry, a trade publication.
Restaurants and bakeries are also dealing with the consequences of the virus.
Some are the usual suspects - bakery items and ice cream, for example, but other goods are made with egg products as well, such as mayonnaise, makeup and shampoo.
Hen House said its costs had gone up about 40 percent in the last couple of weeks, with some of that passed on to consumers.
The consumers take note.
Rachel Ciordas, a baker and blogger from the Kansas City area, has traded in the supermarket for a farmers market.
"It's the same price or cheaper to buy from a man.
Local egg farmers are largely unaffected by the avian flu and the drop in production of larger companies.
Campo Lindo Farms, a farm north of Kansas City, said avian flu in one of its flocks would put it out of business.
But Campo Lindo has not increased prices to take advantage of lagging production numbers, said owner Carol Maddick.
It is not clear how the virus moved from wild birds, which are carriers of the H5N2 virus, to poultry in enclosed facilities.
The virus is said to be transferred through physical contact such as bird droppings.
But Hong Wei Xin, director of the Egg Industry Center at Iowa State University, says the virus can also travel through the air and seep into hatcheries and barns.
Heat kills the virus, and outbreaks are expected to slow in the summer months.
Xin hopes that by the time the summer gives way to autumn, enough research will have been done to curb further outbreaks.
But there are no guarantees.
Cooks weren't too concerned about the number of eggs they scooped, and owner Roxanne Gray allowed it.
Santa Jose, Calif. scientists are busy planning how to pluck, push and park a spinning asteroid between here and the moon.
While most of us hope to dodge space rocks, NASA has a $ 105 million plan to drag one closer to Earth.
It's the Space Age equivalent of bringing Muhammad the mountain as a first step to our voyage to Mars.
"Our goal is to go out there and rendezvous - then get it into the hands of people who can understand it," said David Korsmeyer, director of the Engineering Directorate at NASA Ames Research Center in Mountain View, Calif.
Asteroids command respect because a big one can play us like a ball.
February's twofer - a little one and a bigger one - only added to the anxiety.
But they're also valuable and could launch us into deeper space.
That's because we'll need a vehicle a lot better than a rocket.
Engineers hope to design a futuristic solar-electric vehicle that would make a slow, steady trip to find an asteroid.
It's the journey that thrills scientists, not the destination.
After finding a suitable rock, the spaceship might push, tug or harpoon the rock.
Or perhaps lasso it in some 21st century version of a Roy Rogers rope trick.
"It has been more than 40 years since we have been to deep space," said Stanford University aeronautics professor G. Scott Hubbard, who conceived the Mars Pathfinder mission and formerly directed NASA Ames.
"We need to get our "chops," " he said.
"It's a demonstration of technology for the future."
The "Asteroid Retrieval Mission" is still under development in Washington, where it is a major new goal for an agency that has retired the shuttle fleet and set up a moon landing plan.
Suggested last year by the California Institute of Technology, the idea has found favor at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
In his only space speech, Obama vowed to land on an asteroid by 2025.
There's a cooler reception in Congress.
Developing the technology needed to bring home an asteroid, warned Stanford's Hubbard.
It is just a down payment on a project that could cost billions of dollars.
"I would caution the developers to be very clear-minded and open-eyed," he said.
Ames and other NASA research centers will gather scientists to work out the details.
At Ames, "we can provide tools that make it more successful," says Korsmeyer.
Ames scientists could devise tools similar to their CheMin device on the Mars rover that analyzes Martian rocks.
Ames could also build sensors to look for an asteroid.
Most asteroids are too far away to be useful when they don't crash into Russia.
Some are huge.
But small ones - say, the size of a dump truck - might be practical to grab, NASA says.
Asteroids are pieces of debris left from the formation of our solar system about 4.6 billion years ago and hold clues about our origins.
Although the main goal is not to protect the Earth from an asteroid, the technology developed "could prove useful in diverting a larger, rogue asteroid," said former astronaut Tom Jones, an adviser to the B612 Foundation.
The perfect asteroid will be hard to find because it will be too small to reflect light.
It doesn't want to want to be captured.
NASA called it "an uncooperative object."
It will be happy in its own orbit, moving like a top.
It may not even be solid, but just a bunch of rocky ice.
Then there's the challenge of catching it.
Korsmeyer calls it a "math game."
It's like trying to catch a baseball on a Ferris wheel.
Once caught, it would be pushed or pulled and brought close to the moon.
There, remote-controlled ships came to chip off chunks to study.
Astronomers would visit it.
"It's not a small undertaking," Korsmeyer said.
"You are going to try to put a whole set of moving balls in the pocket."
On June 28, 2009, world-famous physicist Stephen Hawking threw a party at the University of Cambridge complete with balloons.
They were invited but no one showed up.
Hawking said he only sent out invitations after his party had concluded.
It was, he said, "a welcome reception for future time travelers," a tongue-in-cheek experiment to back his 1992 conjecture that it is impossible to travel.
Hawking is on the wrong side of history.
Recent experiments offer support for time travel at least from a mathematical point of view.
The possibility of time travel, far from being a topic worthy only of science fiction, would have profound implications for fundamental physics as well as for practical applications such as quantum cryptography and computing.
The source of time travel speculation lies in the fact that our best physical theories seem to contain no prohibition.
Einstein's theory of general relativity, which describes gravity as the warping of spacetime by energy and matter.
An extremely powerful gravitational field, such as that produced by a black hole, could warp the fabric of existence so that spacetime bends back on itself.
This would create a CTC, a loop that could be traversed to travel back in time.
Hawking and many other physicists find CTCs disgusting, as any macroscopic object traveling through one would create paradoxes where cause and effect break down.
However, in a model proposed by David Deutsch in 1991, CTCs could be avoided at the quantum scale because of the behavior of fundamental particles, which follow fuzzy rules of probability rather than strict determinism.
"It's intriguing that you've got general relativity predicting these paradoxes, but then you consider them in quantum mechanical terms," says University of Queensland physicist Tim Ralph.
"It makes you wonder whether this is important in terms of unifying general relativity with quantum mechanics."
Ralph and his PhD student Martin Ringbauer recently led a team that experimentally simulated Deutsch's model of CTCs, testing and confirming many aspects of the theory.
It is published in Nature Communications.
Much of their simulation revolved around investigating how Deutsch's model deals with the "grandfather paradox," a hypothetical scenario in which someone uses a CTC to travel back in time to murder his own grandfather.
The quantum solution to the grandfather paradox works like this.
Imagine that a fundamental particle goes back in time to flip a switch on the particle-generating machine that created it.
If the particle turns the switch, the machine emits a particle back into the CTC; if the switch is not turned, the machine emits nothing.
There is no a priori deterministic certainty to the particle's emission, only a distribution of probabilities.
In the quantum realm, Deutsch's insight was to postulate self-consistency, that any particle entering one end must emerge at the other end with identical properties.
A particle emitted by the machine with a probability of one half would enter the CTC and come out the other end to flip the switch with a probability of one half of going back to flip the switch. Then, imbuing itself at birth with a probability of one half.
If the particle were a person, it would be born with a one-half probability of killing her grandfather and giving her grandfather a one-half probability of escaping death at her hands, which would close the causative loop and escape the paradox.
This solution is in keeping with the known laws of quantum mechanics.
In their new simulation, Ralph, Ringbauer and their colleagues used Deutsch's model to study interactions between pairs of polarized photons in a quantum system that is mathematically equivalent to a single photon.
"We encode their polarization so that the second act as a past incarnation of the first," says Ringbauer.
They created a stunt double of the person and ran him through a time-loop simulator to see if the doppelganger exactly resembled the original person as he was in that moment in the past.
By measuring the polarization states of the second photon after interaction with the first, the team demonstrated Deutsch's self-consistency in action.
"Of course, we're not sending anything back in time but it allows us to study weird evolutions not allowed in quantum mechanics."
Those "weird evolutions" enabled by a CTC, Ringbauer notes, would have remarkable practical applications, such as breaking quantum-based cryptography.
"If you can clone quantum states," he says, "you can violate the Heisenberg uncertainty principle," which comes in handy in quantum cryptography because it forbids measuring certain kinds of variables simultaneously.
But if you clone that system, you can measure one quantity in the first and the other in the second, which allows you to decrypt a message.
"In the presence of CTCs, quantum mechanics allows one to perform very powerful information-processing tasks, much more than we believe classical or even normal quantum computers can do," said Todd Brun, a physicist at the University of Southern California.
If the Deutsch model is correct, then this experiment simulates what could be done with a real CTC.
But this experiment cannot test the Deutsch model itself, which could be done with an actual CTC."
Deutsch's model is not the only one there.
In 2009, Seth Lloyd, a theorist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, proposed an alternative, less radical model of CTCs that resolves the grandfather paradox using a technique called post-selection.
Lloyd went on to perform successful laboratory simulations of his model in 2011.
"Deutsch has a weird effect of destroying correlation," says Lloyd.
A time traveler who emerges from a Deutschian CTC enters a universe that has nothing to do with the one she left.
Post-selected CTCs preserve correlations, so that the time traveler goes back to the same universe. "
This property of Lloyd's model would make CTCs much less powerful for information processing than what computers could achieve in typical regions of spacetime.
"The classes of problems we can help solve are roughly equal to finding needles in haystacks," Lloyd says.
A computer in a Deutschian CTC could solve the reason why haystacks exist.
Lloyd is aware of the speculative nature of CTCs.
"I have no idea which is the right model.
Both of them are wrong," he said.
The other possibility is that Hawking is correct that "CTCs simply don't and cannot exist."
Time-travel party planners should save the champagne for themselves - future guests seem unlikely to come.
If animals evolved in an ocean on an alien world, what would they look like?
They are very much like the ones on Earth, a team of researchers.
A new study found a surprising and elegant ratio embedded in the way certain swimming species move in the ocean.
This case, described in the journal PLOS Biology, reveals a surprising case of convergent evolution - and could help engineers build better swimming robots.
Previous work has found similarities in the way animals move through water (whether water or air).
It's part of a trend toward understanding the detailed physics of how animals move, said Jack Costello, a marine biologist at Providence College in Rhode Island, who was not involved in the paper.
"I think it's part of a wave of knowledge of biological motion.
Costello said. "For many years people have been satisfied with generalities about thrust production.
A team of researchers at Northwestern University began to wonder about the movement of black ghost knifefish.
The black ghost knifefish lives in freshwater streams in South America. It mainly moves around using an undulating fin.
This is in contrast to more well-known fish like trout or salmon, which sweep a tail back and forth.
The knifefish causes a wave to run down its thin fin, which runs most of the length of its body.
fin swimmers - There's a whole host of sea critters who move like this. Some have a single fin running along the length of their bodies, while others have a pair.
Sometimes it makes them look like they're wearing a fluttering tutu.
During their previous work on the ghost black knifefish, the scientists noticed that the fish's maximum speed occurred when a total of two waves of motion could fit across its fin.
The scientists studied 22 very different species of finned swimmers, using video, lab studies and computer modeling to find out if any pattern existed.
They even trimmed the fin on a fin-swimming robot to see whether that made any difference.
They found that there was a pattern in their motion - but it wasn't what they expected.
As it moved, each animal followed a specific pattern: there was a ratio between the length of each undulating wavelength and the amplitude (or height) of each.
Every back-and-forth wiggle of the fish's fin was 20 times as long as its total movement.
For each species they studied, including skates, rays, the cuttlefish and the Persian carpet flatworm, that ratio remained 20 to 1.
"We found that our prediction was correct in every animal," said Neelesh Patankar, a mechanical engineer at Northwestern and one of the lead authors.
The researchers think that this pattern has arisen at least eight times because it maximizes the swimmer's ability to move with speed.
There could be a thousand more species with the same ratio, the authors said.
"Physics puts constraints on how nature can have and survive," Patankar said.
And if complex alien life were ever found using a fin to swim on another planet, this same ratio would probably emerge, said Patankar's co-lead author, Malcolm MacIver.
"There are only a certain number of ways animals can move," MacIver said.
If they were moving through liquid water on another planet, the same fluid constraints would apply.
"It's water," he said.
The findings could help scientists learn how to better build underwater robots that swim quickly.
Such skills are critical, for example, when sending underwater vehicles to deal with oil spills. They can't swim with the same precision as these animals.
"There's a real need for a robot that can move with more agility.
Obama authorized U.S. airstrikes in northern Iraq on Thursday, warning they would be launched if needed to defend Americans from advancing and protect civilians under siege.
In a late-night statement, Obama said American military planes had carried out airdrops of humanitarian aid to tens of thousands of Iraqi religious minorities surrounded by militants and in need of food and water.
"America is here to help," he said.
His announcement threatened a return to U.S. military involvement in the long sectarian war.
The announcement reflected the deepest American engagement in Iraq since the withdrawal of U.S. troops in late 2011.
Obama staked much of his legacy as president on ending what he has called the "dumb war" in Iraq.
It was delivered to the tens of thousands of Yazidis trapped on a mountain without food and water.
The Yazidis fled their homes after the Islamic State group issued an ultimatum to convert to Islam, pay a religious fine, flee their homes or face death.
Obama said the airdrops were made at the government's request.
Mindful of the public's aversion to another long war, Obama acknowledged the prospect of a new round of U.S. military action would cause concern.
He vowed not to put combat troops back in Iraq and said there was no U.S. military solution.
"I will not allow the United States to be dragged into another war in Iraq," Obama said.
Even so, he outlined a rationale for airstrikes if the Islamic State advance on American troops in the northern city of Irbil and the U.S. Consulate there.
The troops were sent to Iraq earlier this year in response to the group's swift movement across the border with Syria.
"When the lives of American people are at risk, we take action.
"It is my responsibility as commander in chief.
He said he had also approved the use of targeted military strikes to help protect civilians.
He addressed the nation only after an American aircraft delivering food and water to Iraqis left the drop site in northern Iraq.
The Pentagon said one C-17 and two C-130 cargo aircraft delivered a total of 72 bundles of food and water.
They were escorted by two F/A-18s from an undisclosed base in the area.
The planes delivered 5,300 gallons of fresh drinking water and 8,000 meals and were at a low altitude for less than 15 minutes.
The mission to assist the Yazidis is part of the American mandate to help around the world when the U.S. has the unique capabilities.
In such cases, Obama said, "we can act carefully to prevent a potential act of genocide."
Officials said the United States was prepared to undertake additional airdrops if necessary, but did not say how quickly.
Administration officials said they believe the U.S. strikes would be consistent with international law in part because Washington has asked for military action.
They also said Obama had the right to act on his own in order to protect American citizens.
He authorized strikes on Syria last summer after it deployed chemical weapons, but they never took place, in part because of an international agreement to strip Syria of its stockpiles of the deadly gases.
The president has also faced calls to take military action in Syria, given that more than 170,000 people have been killed.
Critics, including some Republicans in Congress, have said Obama's approach to Syria has allowed the group to flourish there by growing strong enough to move over the border with Iraq.
Republican Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina on Thursday praised Obama's action, but said more was needed.
"This should include the provision of military and other assistance to our Kurdish, Iraqi, and Syrian partners" and support for Sunni Iraqis who seek to resist the extremists, they said in a statement.
Obama sent about 800 U.S. forces to Iraq earlier this year, largely split between joint operation centers in Baghdad and Irbil.
More than half provide security for the embassy and the U.S.
No plans were made to evacuate those Americans from Iraq but enhanced intelligence flights over Irbil with both manned and unmanned aircraft to monitor deteriorating conditions.
If the president were to order airstrikes in Iraq, he would be all but certain to proceed without congressional approval.
Lawmakers left town last week for a five-week recess with no sign of being called back.
However, officials said the White House was in contact with some lawmakers, including House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky.
Some Republicans have called for the president to take action and said he doesn't need lawmakers' approval.
BOSTON - Months after winning a national title, Harvard's debate team falls to New York.
The fight took place at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility, a prison where convicts can take courses taught by nearby Bard College, and where inmates have formed a popular debate club.
Last month, they invited this year's national debate champions over for a friendly competition.
Harvard debate team were world champions in 2014.
But the inmates build a reputation of their own.
In the two years since they started, the prisoners have beaten teams from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the University of Vermont.
The competition with West Point, which is now an annual, became a rivalry.
At Bard, those who help teach the students aren't surprised by their success.
"Students in the prison are held to the same standards as students on the main campus," said Max Kenner, executive director of the Bard Prison Initiative, which operates in six New York prisons.
"These students are serious.
They are not condescended to by the faculty.
The inmates had to defend a position they opposed: that public schools should be allowed to turn away students whose parents had entered the United States illegally.
The inmates brought up arguments that the Harvard team did not.
Three students from Harvard's team responded, and a neutral panel declared them victorious.
"The fact that we won is nice, but it's not the most important thing," said Kenner, who added that the club is meant to help students.
Students from Harvard weren't immediately available for comment, but they posted a comment on a team Facebook page shortly after the loss.
"There are few teams we are prouder of having lost to than the team we faced this weekend," they wrote.
"We are incredibly grateful to Bard and the Eastern New York Correctional Facility for the work they do."
Inmates can earn various degrees through the program, which is taught by Bard faculty.
About 15 percent of all-male inmates at Napanoch are enrolled at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility.
Graduates continue their studies at Yale and Columbia universities, said Kenner.
While in prison, they learn without the help of the Internet but instead use resources provided by the school.
"They make the most of everything they have," Kenner said.
AFRAQ, Jordan - As U.S. President Barack Obama's announcement that he was postponing U.S. missile strikes on the Syrian regime caused anger and fear.
"If they strike, strike once and for all and bring the regime down," said Um Hafiz, who fled their village near Syria's southern city of Daara in January.
Other residents said Sunday that Obama's decision to first seek congressional authorization would so embolden Syrian President Bashar Assad to attack Zaatari, a major recruiting ground about five miles inside Jordan.
"We were happy when we first heard that the U.S. would attack, but then when it was postponed, we were afraid Bashar would attack the camp," said Raad Zoubi, 23, who has lived in the dusty camp for the past year.
"People are angry, but we will be happy when the Americans attack."
Expectations ran high in Zaatari late last week as the United States said it had determined "with high confidence" that the Assad regime was behind an Aug. 21 chemical attack on a rebel-held Damascus suburb that killed at least 1,429 civilians.
Camp residents heard Obama's decision to postpone the operation on live broadcasts of his announcement Saturday, carried by Arabic-language television channels received over the satellite dishes.
"Everyone was watching," said Zoubi, a baker from Taybeh, a village outside Daara, where anti-Assad protests erupted on March 18, 2011.
Coming from a country that the Assad family has ruled for four decades, it's doubtful most of the camp's more than 120,000 residents understood Obama's decision to seek congressional approval.
Fadil Issa, 35, who has been in Zaatari since leaving his village near Daara eight months ago, said many refugees think Obama called off the U.S. strikes for fear it could cause a war with Iran.
"People are unhappy with this delay.
I don't know why he's afraid of Iran," he said.
As refugees tried to make sense of Obama's decision, life in Zaatari went on.
including the nightly return to Syria by refugees so tired of the camp's heat, filth and crime that they brave the risky border crossing.
"What is the worst that can happen?
We would rather die in our homeland," said Ahmad Mohammad Hussein, 28, who was arrested during the anti-Assad protests in Daara and spent a year in prison.
"We can no longer take it here.
Hus Hussein waited in the sultry late afternoon heat with scores of other men, women and children to leave them at crossings maintained by the Jordanian military.
They were to walk to Syrian territory controlled by the Free Syrian Army, a loose group of rebel groups.
Seats are limited and are first come, first served.
So the crowd charged the vehicles as they pulled up in clouds of dust, pushing through the doors, their meager possessions stuffed in old suitcases and cloth bundles.
Jordanian security forces in three armored cars stood by, on guard against any violence.
The buses were preceded by a truck with windows cut into its sides and stairs coming down from the rear.
It appeared to be bringing rebel fighters back into Syria as only men and teenage boys swarmed into the trailer, some pushing their bags through the windows, others crushing their way into the rear.
"It's unbearable to live here," said Hafiz, as several of her daughters clustered by her side.
"It's better over there even with rocket explosions.
We are not afraid.
Everything God has written will happen."
Call it "The Mystery of Oblong Blobs."
They are microscopic remains of ancient pigment granules that offer clues to the colors of winged dinosaurs.
But a new study by a Drexel University graduate has ruffled a few academic feathers.
Alison E. Moyer, now a Ph.D. student at North Carolina State University, says the tiny "microbodies" might simply be impressions left by very old bacteria.
Its size and shape, among other features, do not rule out interpretation.
"We have to be careful," said Moyer, the lead author of the paper published this month in the journal Scientific Reports.
The study has prompted a heated social media reaction from some who favor the interpretation of the shapes as melanosomes.
Others in the field have been more accepting of Moyer's work as a challenge to established view.
Such give-and-take is perhaps more prevalent in paleontology than in some other fields of science because the only surefire way to answer certain questions is to travel back in a time machine.
Moyer found a living time machine with a chicken.
Paleontologists consider birds to be modern dinosaurs, so Moyer created bacteria from chicken feathers.
She compared the bacteria with the pigment granules inside the feathers with oblong impressions found in feathers from winged dinosaurs.
The size, shape, and distribution of the fossil impressions suggested bacteria, she said.
The work was led by N.C. State paleontologist Mary H. Schweitzer.
Her co-authors were Ken Lacovara, professor of paleontology and geology at Drexel.
Matthew D. Shawkey, an associate professor at the University of Akron, said on Twitter that the new research was "bad science."
Shawkey, who was involved in a 2012 study on the feathers of the winged dinosaur Archaeopteryx, had several objections to Moyer's paper.
Chief among them was the juxtaposition of two images - one showing cigar-shaped bacteria on a chicken feather, the other depicting impressions on a fossil from Archaeopteryx.
At a glance, the two images look about the same size.
Shawkey's beef is that the images are reproduced at a different scale (as indicated in the fine print) and that the bacteria is four times as long as in the fossils.
"That's not a good way to put trust in your paper," Shawkey said.
Moyer counters that the bacteria are about twice the size of the fossil.
The graininess of the image makes it a bit hard to tell who is right.)
The size of the alleged melanosomes falls well within the range of known bacteria, Moyer said.
Another reason that the matter remains unclear: Chemical analysis of fossil feathers was inconclusive.
While Shawkey sent more than a dozen tweets objecting to the paper, another scientist had a more receptive attitude to the work of Moyer and her colleagues.
"It's always good to take a step back," said Johan Lindgren, a professor at Lund University.
"They want more data, and I think that's fair."
How did the other scientists conclude about the color of dinosaur feathers if all that remained was their fossilized imprints?
The key was the shape.
By looking at what granule shapes were associated with which colors in modern birds, they concluded that most winged dinosaurs were black.
Or maybe not.
Moyer said, "There is a lot of work to be done.
