The Chinook tribes greeted Lewis and Clark when they arrived at the Lower Columbia River in 1805.
The tribes helped members of the expedition during the winter, bringing food and helping with navigation.
More than 200 years after that first contact, the five tribes that now make up the Chinook Indian Nation have a constitution.
However, they are not recognized by the U.S. government.
"They say we are extinct, but my family still lives on our indigenous land, but my family still lives on our indigenous land," said Councilwoman Kate Elliott.
The Chinook tribes' lack of recognition could change under proposed revisions to the 35-year process. The U.S. Interior Department uses the process to officially recognize Indian tribes. It's not clear if this will be the case.
Changes include moving the earliest date from which tribes must provide documentation of their existence. Tribes will also be allowed to reapply for federal recognition.
Federal recognition is desirable because it makes tribal members and governments eligible for federal budget help.
A federally recognized tribe is a sovereign nation that has a government-to-government relationship with the United States. It has the right to create and enforce laws, determine membership criteria and regulate activities within its jurisdiction.
For some Washington tribes, the proposed changes could make it easier for them to get federal recognition.
These tribes acknowledge that the changes would still mean a long road ahead in gaining the recognition they have sought for years. They also acknowledge that the changes would still mean a long road ahead.
"We are pleased with the proposed changes, but we know that there is still a long way to go," said Sue Hall, vice chair of the Snohomish Tribe of Indians, which has been fighting for more than 30 years to get federal recognition.
The received federal recognition in 2001 during the very end of the Clinton administration.
But both tribes' recognitions were quickly overturned by then-President George W. Bush's administration, which said the Duwamish had not always live in a cohesive community and the Chinooks had not existed continuously through history.
One proposed change, known as the "Part 83 process," requires tribes to show community and political influence or authority only from 1934.
This could be helpful to the Chinooks, since the nation has more documentation from the modern era that goes beyond its oral history, Elliott said. It will help "level the playing field" for all tribes seeking recognition.
"You can't expect the tribes whose treaties weren't honored to get paperwork, particularly when almost everyone was sent to boarding school," Elliott said. The U.S. government forcibly removed Indian children from their families and placed them in boarding schools.
"How can you tell people you can't do anything Indian, but later, when you go to file, they have to prove from 1851 or 1855 that they have been keeping documents?"
The, said Michael Willis, an attorney with the Washington, D.C., office of Hobbs, Straus, Dean & Walker LLP.
The would also allow tribes to re-petition for recognition.
In order to do so, however, tribes whose requests for federal recognition were rejected would have to get the consent of third parties such as other tribes.
" that last-minute stipulation, if it sticks and there is no waiver, is really heartbreaking," he said.
"But if there is one thing we are, we are stubborn, and that is why we are still here.
We are not going to give up.
This is just a final draft."
Duwamish Tribe Chairwoman Cecile Hansen said the proposed changes don't take away from the tribe's ultimate goal: restoration of the recognition they lost and won in 2001.
"No Indian person in the United States should have to prove who they are," Hansen said.
"I have been doing this for 39 years.
Why should I have to go through another set of rules?"
The BIA will hold hearings in July for the public and federally recognized tribes to comment on the proposal.
Announced May 22, they are part of an effort the department says will make tribal recognition more transparent.
Professor Mohammed Dajani expected criticism when he took Palestinian students to Poland last month to visit the Auschwitz concentration camp.
But he wasn't ready for the uproar that followed.
In online comments and posts, Palestinian critics denounced the visit.
Friends counseled the
"People
The director of the American studies program at Al Quds University, Dajani heads an organization called Wasatia, whose declared aim is to promote a culture of moderation and reconciliation among Palestinians.
He is no stranger to controversy.
Dajani said the idea of taking students to Auschwitz took shape after he made a journey to the site three years ago on a visit sponsored by The Aladdin Project. It is a Paris-based organization that promotes understanding between Jews and Muslims. The Aladdin Project was founded in the wake of the terrorist attacks of September 11, 2001.
"In my community you see a lot of denial of the Holocaust.
People don't want to understand the suffering of the other," Dajani said.
"I felt that I did not want to be a bystander, and wanted to bring more awareness and awareness among Palestinians.
Because of its crucial role in the creation of Israel, the Holocaust is freighted with political overtones. Many people believe that their people have paid the price for the persecution of the Jews in Europe. There is no doubt that this is not the case. The Holocaust has been a great source of inspiration for Palestinian society.
Palestin the war that followed the establishment of Israel. Palestinians consider their mass displacement and expulsion a "catastrophe" of similar magnitude, and they recall it in annual commemorations just as Jews will mark Holocaust Remembrance Day this year beginning at sundown Sunday.
"The Holocaust is not taught in Palestinian universities and schools," Dajani said.
"It is a history ignored, mentioned as part of a plot to establish a Jewish state in Palestine or as Zionist propaganda.
Dajani has advocated publicly for Holocaust education among Palestinians and has devoted part of his own classes.
The trip to Auschwitz was part of a research project sponsored by the Friedrich Schiller University in Jena. It also included a visit to Deheishe, a Palestinian refugee camp in the West Bank, by Israeli students.
The project was funded by the German Research Foundation. Israeli students and faculty are studying conflict resolution at Ben Gurion University in Beersheba.
The Palestinian visit to Auschwitz was a sensitive undertaking.
Thirty people were selected from some 70 applicants, though three students from Birzeit University in the West Bank withdrew under peer pressure.
"We didn't want to jeopardize the visit, so we kept it very quiet," he added, noting that applications were sought "by word of mouth," and there was no prior announcement of the trip.
The itinerary included a trip to Krakow, where participants learned about Jewish life before the Holocaust. They also visited synagogues and former Jewish neighborhoods. The program ended with a visit to the Holocaust memorial in Krakow.
In Auschwitz, the group heard from two Holocaust survivors brought by the Israelis, as well as a Polish guide.
"I visited the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago, but here it was different," said Salim Sweidan, a former graduate student at Al Quds.
"When you step on the ground where millions were killed, it leaves a big impression."
"People accused us of showing sympathy for the occupier, but I say no, it was sympathy for the human beings who were killed there, but I say no, it was sympathy for the people who were killed there," Sweidan added.
Nasser al-Qadi, a master's degree candidate in American studies at Al Quds, said he'd joined the trip because it was "our humanitarian duty, regardless of our rift."
"We went there for education, and we believe that there are no restrictions on education," al Qadi added.
He said Israelis should recognize the trauma of displacement and expulsion that accompanied the creation of Israel.
Abdullah Dweikat wrote on the Palestinian news website Watan: "We reject the extermination of any human being because of his religion, nationality or political views. Our humanity also rejects the wounds and pain of our people, who are being slaughtered every day at the hands of the occupiers.
Sweidan said that many people privately expressed support to participants, calling their visit a brave step.
Dajani, a scion of a prominent Palestinian family from Jerusalem, was active in the Palestinian Fatah movement in Lebanon in the 1960s and '70s. He later studied in the United States and was permitted to return to his native city in 1993 to take care of his father.
He said the treatment of his father and other Arab patients at an Israeli hospital was a turning point in his attitude towards Israelis, whom he had viewed as representatives of an oppressive occupation.
"The conflict with Israel has poisoned the whole attitude toward" the Holocaust, Dajani said, adding that "undermining the national narrative."
His response to the critics was simple.
"I'm doing it because it's the right thing to do," he said.
"I would do it again."
KANSAS City, Mo. - Three weeks ago, if you ordered a five- egg omelet from Roxanne's Cafe in the Parkville suburb of Kansas City, you would probably get a three- egg omelet.
Today, Roxanne's standards are more stringent.
A three- egg omelet means three eggs.
No more, no less.
"I have a cook who can't control his egging.
He is not allowed to cook eggs at the moment.
I told him, 'Make two scrambled eggs for me,' and he probably had six eggs in the pan," Gray said.
This is because egg prices for Roxanne's Cafe have increased significantly in the past month.
On May 5, Gray paid $17.55 per 15 dozen eggs.
Last week, she paid $42.85.
Roxanne's Cafe is not alone.
Some supermarkets have seen the price of a dozen eggs increase from 99 cents to $3.
Cafes, restaurants and bakeries around the nation are feeling the pain from recent outbreaks of bird flu, or avian flu.
"This is the most devastating foreign animal disease that has happened in the U.S. for any species," said Jo Manhart, executive director of the Missouri Egg Council. There are no known causes of this disease and it is not considered to be life-threatening.
Farmers have lost 47 million hens and turkeys since the virus started spreading a few months ago.
The top egg-producing state in the country is Iowa, which has been hit the hardest.
More than 30 million hens have been affected in Iowa.
More than 53,000 birds in Arkansas and 40,000 birds in Missouri have been affected.
In Kansas, only 10 birds were infected in a backyard flock.
Despite the relatively small outbreak, last week the Kansas Department of Agriculture banned birds. From appearing in county and state fairs in 2015 for fear of the virus spreading.
The outbreak has cut egg production of eggs has reduced egg production.
Last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture released a report that lowered its forecast for domestic production. It said it expected domestic production to fall to 95.9 billion this year from 95.9 billion in the previous year.
The has struck at a time when eggs were enjoying relative popularity in the food market. The U.S. produced nearly 100 billion eggs last year.
Consumers have become increasingly concerned with protein-rich diets. Last year, on average, each person ate 263 eggs per day, a 30-year high for egg consumption.
"Before this outbreak, eggs were on a roll," said Kevin Burkum, the American Egg Board's senior vice president.
Roxanne's, probably like many cafes, is attempting to compensate for high egg prices.
In addition to portion control in her egg-heavy meals, owner Gray changed the daily specials to include catfish and goulash.
Gray winced at the thought of the last resort, a desperate measure.
The wholesale price of a dozen eggs was 63 cents before the outbreak.
That has almost quadrupled to $2.35, according to Brian Moscogiuri, a food industry reporter for Urner Barry.
Apart from bakeries and restaurants, supermarkets are also struggling with the effects of the virus.
Some of these egg products include the usual suspects, such as ice cream and bakery items, but other goods are made with egg products. These products include mayonnaise, marshmallow cream, makeup and shampoo, for example.
Hen House said its cost has gone up about 40 percent in the last couple of weeks, and it has had to pass some of that on to customers. It also said it is working to reduce the cost of its services.
Consumers are taking note.
Rachel Ciordas, a baker and blogger from the Kansas City area, has traded in the farmers market for her egg supply.
"Now it's the same price or cheaper to buy from a farmer."
It is not clear how the virus transferred from wild birds, which are carriers of the H5N2 virus, to poultry in enclosed facilities.
Conventional wisdom says the virus is transmitted through physical contact such as bird droppings.
But Hong
Heat kills the virus, and outbreaks are expected to slow down during the hot summer months.
Xin hopes that by the time the summer gives way to autumn and wild birds migrate down through the Midwestern states again, there will be enough research to curb further outbreaks.
However, there are no guarantees at all.
Cook weren't too worried about how many eggs they scooped into the frying pan, and proprietor Roxanne Gray was happy about it.
SAN JOSE, Calif. - Scheming to rearrange the heavens, scientists are busy planning how to pluck, push and park a spinning asteroid between here and the moon. The plan is to pluck, push and park a spinning asteroid between here and the moon.
While most of us hope to dodge space rocks, NASA has unveiled an ambitious, $ 105 million plan. The ship is designed to drag one closer to Earth. It will be built in the middle of the solar system.
It's the Space Age equivalent of bringing the mountain to Muhammad and a first step in our journey to Mars.
"Our goal is to go out there and rendezvous and then get it into the hands of the people who can understand it," said David Kors Meyer, director of the Engineering Directorate at Mountain View, Calif.'s NASA Ames Research Center.
Asteroids command our respect because a big one could play us like a billiard ball.
February's twofer - a little one rocked Russia and a bigger one was a near miss - just added to the stress.
But they are also valuable, and pursuing one can launch us into deeper space.
This is because we will need a vehicle much better than a rocket driven by fuel.
With an infusion of new NASA money, engineers hope to design a futuristic solar-electric vehicle that would make a slow, steady and sustainable trip.
It's the journey, not just the destination, that thrills researchers.
After finding a suitable space rock orbiting our way, the spaceship may push, tug or harpoon the asteroid. The asteroid could be pushed, tugged or harpooned by the spaceship.
Or it could stuff the rock into a large bag, or perhaps lasso it in some 21st century version of a Roy Rogers rope trick. There are many different types of rope tricks that can be used.
"As a space-faring country it has been more than 40 years since we have been to deep space," out where asteroids lurk, said Stanford University aeronautics professor G. Scott Hubbard, who formerly directed NASA Ames. He conceived the Mars Pathfinder mission.
"We have to regain our 'chops,' " he said.
"It's a demonstration of the future of space exploration."
The "Asteroid Retrieval Mission" is still under development in Washington, D.C., where it is a major new goal for an agency that has grounded a moon-landing plan.
Suggested last year by the Keck Institute for Space Studies at the California institute of technology, the idea has found favor. It is now under consideration by the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy. The White House Office of Science and Technology Policy has yet to make a final decision on the proposal.
President Barack Obama vowed in his only space speech that we would land on an asteroid by 2025.
There is a cooler reception in the Congress.
Developing the know-how required to bring home an asteroid will greatly increase prices, warned Stanford's Hubbard.
The $ 105 million is just a down payment on a project that could cost billions of dollars.
"I would caution the developers to be very clear-minded and open-eyed about what the ultimate cost... could be," he said.
In the summer, Ames and other NASA research centers will gather their scientists to work out the details. There will be a series of meetings at Ames and other NASA research centers to work out the details.
At Ames, "we can provide tools that make the mission more effective," Kors Meyer said.
For example, he said, Ames scientists could develop tools similar to their CheMin device aboard the Mars rover that analyzes the composition of Martian rocks.
Ames could also build sensors to help find an asteroid.
Most asteroids live too far away to be helpful when they're not crashing into, for instance, Russia.
Some of them are huge, and some are huge.
But small ones - say, the size of a dump truck - could be practical to grab using unmanned spaceships, NASA says.
Asteroids are the rubble left from the formation of our solar system about 4.6 billion years ago. They hold valuable metals and clues about our origins.
Although the main goal is not to protect the Earth from an errant space rock, "could prove useful in diverting a larger, rogue asteroid," planetary scientist Tom Jones.
The hunt will not be simple: The perfect asteroid will be difficult to find because it will be too small to reflect light.
It doesn't want to be captured.
NASA calls it an "uncooperative object."
It will be moving at 17,000 mph, spinning like a top.
It may not even be solid, like granite, but just a tumbling bunch of rocky ice. There is no such thing as a rock that is solid.
Then there's the problem of catching it.
Kors Meyer calls it a complicated "math game."
Picture trying to catch a ball on a Ferris wheel.
Once captured, it would be slowly pulled or pushed, and then nudged close to the moon.
There, remote-controlled ships would come to chip off chunks for research.
Astronaut astronauts would
"It's not a trivial job," Kors Meyer said.
"You are lining up a whole set of moving balls to try to put one in the pocket."
On June 28, 2009, the world-famous physicist Stephen Hawking threw a party at the University of Cambridge. The party consisted of champagne, balloons and hors d'oeuvres.
Everyone was invited, but no one showed up.
Hawking had expected as much, because he only sent out invitations after his party had ended.
It was, he said, "a welcome reception for future time travelers," a tongue-in-cheek experiment to reinforce his 1992 conjecture.
Hawking may be on the wrong side of history.
Recent experiments offer tentative support for the feasibility of time travel.
The study cuts to the core of our understanding of the universe, and the resolution of the possibility of time travel, far from being a topic worthy only of science fiction, would have profound implications for fundamental physics.
The source of time travel speculation lies in the fact that our best physical theories do not seem to prohibit time travel.
The feat is based on Einstein's theory of general relativity. It describes gravity as the warping of spacetime by matter and energy.
An extremely powerful gravitational field, such as that produced by a spinning black hole, could in principle warp the fabric of life.
This would create a "closed timelike curve," or CTC, that could be traversed.
Hawking and many other physicists find CTCs abhorrent, because any macroscopic object traveling through one would inevitably create paradoxes.
In a model proposed by the theorist David Deutsch in 1991, however, the paradoxes created by CTCs could be avoided at the quantum scale because of the behavior of fundamental particles.
"It's interesting that you have general relativity predicting these paradoxes, but then you think about them in quantum mechanical terms and the paradoxes go away," says University of Queensland physicist Tim Ralph.
"It makes you wonder whether this is important in terms of formulating a theory that unifies quantum mechanics.
Recently Ralph and his PhD student Martin Ringbauer led a team that experimentally simulated Deutsch's model of CTCs for the first time. Many aspects of the two-decades-old theory were tested and confirmed.
The findings are published in Nature Communications
Much of their simulation revolved around investigating how Deutsch's model deals with the "grandfather paradox," a hypothetical scenario in which someone uses a CTC to travel back through time.
Deutsch's quantum solution to the grandfather paradox is like this:
Instead of a human being traversing a CTC to kill her ancestor, imagine that a fundamental particle goes back in time.
If the switch is flipped, the machine emits a particle into the CTC. If the switch is not flipped, the machine emits nothing.
There is no a priori deterministic certainty of the emission of the particle. There is only a probability distribution.
Deutsch's insight was to postulate self-consistency in the quantum realm. Any particle that enters one end of a CTC must emerge at the other end with the same properties.
Therefore, a particle emitted by the machine with a probability of one half would enter the CTC and come out the other end to flip the switch.
If the particle were a person, she would be born with a one-half probability of killing her grandfather. This would give her grandfather a one-half probability of escaping death at her hands. This is good enough in probabilistic terms to close the causative loop and escape the paradox.
Strange though it may be, this solution is in accordance with the known laws of quantum mechanics.
In their new simulation Ralph, Ringbauer and their colleagues studied Deutsch's model using interactions between pairs of polarized photons. They argue that they are mathematically equivalent to a single photon traversing a CTC.
"We encoded their polarization so that the second one acts as a past incarnation of the first," Ringbauer says. The polarization of the second one is also encoded in the first one.
So instead of sending a person through a time loop, they created a stunt double of the individual and ran him through a time-loop simulator to see if the doppelganger coming out of a CTC exactly looked like the original individual as he was at that time in the past.
By measuring the polarization states of the second photon after its interaction with the first. Deutsch's self-consistency in action was demonstrated across multiple trials.
"Of course, we're not really sending anything back in time, but the simulation allows us to study weird evolutions normally not permitted in quantum mechanics."
Those "weird evolutions" enabled by a CTC, Ringbauer notes, would have remarkable practical applications. For example, the cloning of the quantum states of fundamental particles.
"If you can clone quantum states," he says, "you can violate the Heisenberg uncertainty principle." The principle prohibits accurate measurements of certain kinds of paired variables, such as position and momentum.
"But if you clone that system, you can measure one quantity in the first and the other quantity in the second.
"In the presence of CTCs, quantum mechanics allows one to perform very powerful information-processing tasks. Todd Brun, a physicist at the University of Southern California, was not involved with the experiment.
But this experiment cannot test the Deutsch model itself, because it can only be done with access to a real CTC."
Deutsch's model is not the only one.
In 2009 Seth Lloyd, a theorist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, proposed an alternative, less radical model of CTCs that resolves the grandfather paradox using quantum teleport and a technique called post-selection.
With Canadian collaborators, Lloyd went on to perform successful laboratory simulations.
"Deutsch's theory has a strange effect of destroying the correlation," Lloyd says.
"That is, a time traveler who emerges from a Deutschian CTC enters a universe that has nothing to do with the future.
By contrast, post-selected CTCs preserve correlation, so that the time traveler returns to the same universe.
This property of Lloyd's model would make CTCs less powerful for data processing, however still much better than what computers could do in typical regions of spacetime.
"The classes of problems our CTCs could help solve are roughly equivalent to finding needles in haystacks," Lloyd says. There are a number of different types of problems that can be solved by our CTCs.
"But a computer in a Deutschian CTC could solve why haystacks exist.
Lloyd, however, acknowledges the speculative nature of CTCs.
"I don't really know which model is right.
Maybe both of them are wrong," he said.
Of course, he adds, the other possibility is that Hawking is right, "that CTCs simply do not and cannot exist."
Time-travel party planners should save the champagne for themselves. Their hoped-for future guests are unlikely to arrive in a timely manner.
If finned swimming animals evolved in an alien world on an ocean, what would they look like?
Quite possibly much like the ones on Earth, a group of researchers says.
A new study that examined the motion of certain swimming species in the ocean found a surprising and elegant difference in how they move.
This ratio, described in the journal PLOS Biology, reveals a surprising case of convergent evolution over a diverse range of unrelated animals. It could help engineers build better robots that are able to swim. The results of this study have yet to be published in a peer-reviewed journal.
There are striking similarities in the way animals move through water and air.
It's part of a trend toward understanding the detailed physics of how animals move. It is possible that these rules of movement will be used to design more agile robots, said Jack Costello, a marine biologist at Providence College in Rhode Island. He was not involved in the study.
"I think it's part of a growing understanding of biological motion.
For many years
A group of researchers at Northwestern University initially started to wonder about common rules of motion after studying the black ghost knifefish.
The black ghost knifefish lives in freshwater streams in South America. It primarily moves around with an undulating fin attached to the underside of its body. It is also known as the "black ghost knifefish."
This is unlike more well-known fish like trout or salmon, which sweep a tail (and the rear portion of their bodies) back and forth.
The knifefish causes a wave to move down its thin fin, which runs the length of its body.
There are a whole host of sea critters who move like this. Some have a single fin running along the length of their bodies, while others have a pair, one on each side. There are many different types of fin swimmers that can be found in the ocean.
Sometimes (in the case of the squid, a relative of the cuttlefish) it makes them look like they are wearing a tutu.
DuringDuring their previous work on the ghost black knifefish, the scientists noticed that the fish's maximum speed occurred when a total of two waves of motion could fit across the length of its fin. They wondered whether there might be a common rule across different species. There is no known reason why the fish's maximum speed occurs when a total of two waves of motion could fit across the length of its fin.
The researchers studied 22 different species of finned swimmers using lab studies, video recordings and computer modeling to find out what patterns might exist.
They even trimmed the fin on a fin-swimming robot, which looks like a torpedo with a ribbon strung underneath.
They found that there was a pattern in their movement, though it wasn't what they expected.
Each animal seemed to follow a specific pattern: the ratio between the amplitude (or height) of every wavelength and the length of each wavelength was about 20 to 1.
Every full back-and-forth wiggle of the fish's fin was 20 times as long as the wiggle was wide. The length of the wiggle was also 20 times as long as the wiggle was wide.
For each species studied, including skates, rays, the cuttlefish and the Persian carpet flatworm, that ratio remained 20 to 1.
"We found in every animal for which data are available, our prediction was correct," said Neelesh Patankar.
The researchers believe that this pattern of movement has independently arisen at least eight times. This is because it maximizes the swimmer's ability to move with speed effectively.
There may be a thousand more finned-swimming species that have the same ratio.
"Physics puts constraints on the kinds of solutions nature can have and survive," Patankar said.
If complex alien life were ever to be found on another planet using a fin to swim, this same ratio would probably emerge.
"There are only a few ways in which animals can move effectively," MacIver said.
If those alien animals were moving through liquid water on another planet, then the same fluid constraints apply.
"Water is water," he said.
The findings may help scientists learn how to better build underwater robots that swim quickly and efficiently, the researchers added.
These skills are critical, for example, when sending underwater vehicles to deal with oil spills. These animals can't yet swim with the level of precision that these underwater vehicles can. They can't yet swim with the level of precision that these underwater vehicles can.
"There's a real need for underwater robots that can move with more agility," MacIver said.
Obama authorized U.S. airstrikes in northern Iraq Thursday night, warning they would be launched if needed to defend Americans from advancing Islamic militants.
In a televised late-night statement from the White House, Obama said American military planes had already carried out airdrops of humanitarian aid to tens of thousands of Iraqi religious minorities.
"Today America is coming to help," he said.
His announcement threatened a renewal of U.S. military involvement in the country's long-standing sectarian conflict.
The announcement marked the deepest American involvement in Iraq since U.S. troops withdrew in late 2011 after nearly a decade.
Obama has staked much of his legacy as president on ending what he has called the "dumb war."
The food and water supplies were delivered to tens of thousands of Yazidis who were trapped on a mountain without water and food.
The Yazidis, who follow an ancient religion with ties to Zoroastrianism, fled their homes after the Islamic State group issued an ultimatum. They were ordered to convert to Islam, pay a religious fine, flee their homes, or face death. The Islamic State group said it would kill anyone who refused to do so.
Obama said the airdrops were carried out at the Iraqi government's request.
Mindful of the public's aversion to another lengthy war, Obama acknowledged that the prospect of a new round of U.S. military action would be a cause for concern among many Americans. There is no doubt that there will be a lot of debate about this issue.
He vowed not to put American combat troops back on the ground in Iraq and said there was no military solution.
"As commander in chief, I will not allow the United States to be dragged into fighting another war in Iraq," Obama said.
However, he outlined a rationale for airstrikes if the Islamic State militants advance on American troops in the northern city of Irbil. The U.S. Consulate is located in the Kurdish region of Iraq, where the Islamic State is based.
The troops were sent to Iraq earlier this year as part of the White House's response to the swift movement of the extremist group across the border.
"When the lives of American citizens are at risk, we will take action," Obama said.
"That's my duty as commander in chief's responsibility as commander in chief."
He said he had also authorized the use of targeted military strikes if necessary to protect civilians.
The Pentagon said the airdrops were carried out by one C-17 and two C-130 cargo planes that together delivered 72 bundles of food and water in total.
They were accompanied by two F/A-18 fighters from an undisclosed air base.
The planes delivered 5,300 gallons of fresh drinking water and 8,000 pre-packaged meals. At a low altitude, the planes were over the drop area for less than 15 minutes.
The as part of the American mandate to assist around the world when the U.S. has the unique capabilities to help avert a massacre.
Officials said the United States was prepared to undertake additional airdrops if required. However, they did not say how soon such missions might take place.
Officials said they believe unilateral U.S. strikes would be consistent with international law in part because the Iraqi government has requested military action.
They also said Obama had the constitutional right to act on his own in order to protect the rights of American citizens.
He also authorized strikes in Syria last summer after chemical weapons were used, but those attacks were never carried out, in part because of domestic political concerns and in part because of an international deal.
The president has also faced persistent calls to take military action in Syria on humanitarian grounds. More than 170,000 people have been killed in the country since the conflict began.
Critics argue that Obama's cautious approach to Syria has allowed the Islamic State group to grow strong enough to move across the border with Iraq and make quick gains.
Republican Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina praised Obama's proposed actions Thursday night, but said there would be a lot more work to be done.
"This should include the provision of military and other assistance to our Kurdish, Iraqi, and Syrian partners" who are fighting the militants, support for Sunni Iraqis who seek to resist the extremists.
Obama dispatched about 800 U.S. forces to Iraq earlier this year, with those troops largely split between joint operation centers in Irbil and Baghdad.
More than half are providing security for the U.S. embassy.
Officials said there were no plans to evacuate those Americans from Iraq but that the United States was conducting enhanced intelligence flights over Irbil. These flights were being conducted by both unmanned and manned aircraft.
If the president were to order actual airstrikes in Iraq, it's all but certain he would proceed without formal congressional approval.
Lawmakers left town last week for a five-week recess. There has been no indication that Congress will return.
Officials said the White House was in contact throughout Thursday with some lawmakers, including Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell.
Some Republicans have called for the president to take action and say he does not need lawmakers' approval.
BOSTON - months after winning a national title, Harvard's debate team has been defeated by a group of New York prison inmates.
The took place at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility. The maximum-security prison offers courses taught by nearby Bard College. It is also the place inmates have formed a popular debate club. There are several other facilities in the area as well.
Last month, they invited the Ivy League students and this year's national debate winners over for a friendly match.
The Harvard debate team
The inmates are building a reputation of their own.
Since they started a debate club, the prisoners have beaten teams from the University of Vermont. and the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.
The competition with West Point, which is now an annual event, has turned into a rivalry.
At Bard, those who help teach the inmates aren't particularly surprised by their success.
" students in the prison are held to the same standards, levels of rigor and expectation as students on Bard's main campus," said Max Kenner, the executive director of the Bard Prison Initiative.
"These students are serious students are serious.
Against Harvard, the inmates were tasked with defending a position that they opposed. They had to argue that public schools should be allowed to turn away students whose parents had illegally entered the United States. They had to argue that public schools should not be allowed to turn away students whose parents had entered the United States illegally.
The inmates brought up arguments that the Harvard team had not considered.
Three students from Harvard responded, and a panel of neutral judges declared the team victorious.
"The fact that we won is nice, but it's not the most important thing," said Kenner, adding that the club is meant to help students articulate what they've learned.
Students on the Harvard team weren't immediately available for comment, but shortly after the loss, they posted a Facebook message.
"There are few teams we are prouder of having lost a debate to than the phenomenally intelligent and articulate team.
"We are very grateful to Bard and the Eastern New York Correctional Facility for organizing this event and for the work they do."
Inmates can earn different degrees through the program, which is taught primarily by Bard college.
About 15 percent of the all-male inmates are enrolled at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility in Napanoch.
Graduates have continued their studies at Columbia and Yale.
While in prison, they learn without the help of the Internet, relying instead on the college.
"They take advantage of every chance they have," Kenner said.
MA. As U.S. President Barack Obama's announcement that he was postponing U.S. missile strikes against the Syrian regime hit the Zaatari refugee camp, so did anger and fear.
"If they're going to strike, let them strike once and for all and bring the regime down," said Um Hafiz, who fled with her husband and five children from their village near Syria's southern city of Daara.
Other residents said Sunday that Obama's decision to first seek congressional authorization for a U.S. military operation would so embolden Syrian President Bashar Assad that he might even dare to attack Zaatari, a major recruiting ground for rebel fighters.
"We were happy when we first heard that the U.S. would attack, but when it was postponed, we were afraid that Bashar would attack the camp, but then when it was postponed, we were afraid that Bashar would attack the camp," said Raad Zoubi, 23, who has lived in the dusty, sun-stricken swath of tents and prefabricated metal huts.
"People are angry, but when the Americans attack, we will be glad they do."
Expectations ran high in Zaatari late last week as the United States signaled that cruise-missile strikes were imminent. It said it had determined "with high confidence" that the Assad regime was behind an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack that killed at least 1,429 civilians in a rebel-held suburb of Damascus. There was no immediate word on whether the attack was carried out by the Assad regime.
Camp residents heard Obama announce his decision to postpone the operation on live broadcasts of his Saturday announcement on Arabic-language television channels. They received the information from satellite dishes that sprout like mushrooms atop the houses lining the trash-strewn streets.
"Everyone was watching," said Zoubi, 23, a baker from Taybeh, a village outside Daara. On March 18, 2011, the anti-Assad protests that led to the brutal civil war started.
Coming from a country that the Assad family has ruled for four decades, it's doubtful that most of the camp's more than 120,000 residents understood Obama's decision to seek congressional approval.
FadilIssa, 35, who has been in Zaatari since leaving his village near Daara eight months ago, said many refugees think Obama called off the U.S. strikes for fear they could have triggered hostilities.
"People are disappointed with this postponement.
They don't know why he is afraid of Iran," he said.
As refugees tried to make sense of Obama's decision, life continued in Zaatari without interruption.
including the nightly return to Syria by refugees so tired of the camp's heat, filth, tedium and crime that they willingly brave the risky border crossing to return to old homes or seek new ones. There are many different types of refugees in the camp. These are the ones who are most likely to be returned to their home country of Syria.
"What's the worst that can happen?
"We would rather die in our homeland," said Ahmad Mohammad Hussein, 28, an electrician who spent a year in prison after being arrested by Assad's security forces during the anti-Assad protests.
"We can't take it here anymore."
Hus Hussein waited in the sultry late afternoon heat with scores of other men, women and children for the buses.
From there, they were to walk to Syrian territory controlled by the Free Syrian Army.
Buses are limited
So the crowd charged the vehicles as they pulled up in clouds of choking dust, pushing and shoving through the doors.
Jordanian security forces stood by in three armored cars, on guard against serious violence.
The buses were preceded by a truck hauling a trailer with stairs that swung down from the rear.
It appeared to be bringing rebel fighters back into Syria as only men and teenage boys swarmed into the trailer, some pushing their bags through the windows.
"It's unbearable to live here," said Hafiz as she watched the scene, several of her daughters clustered by her side.
"Even with the rocket explosions, it's better over there.
We're not afraid.
Whatever God has written for us will come to pass."
In the prevailing scientific view, they are microscopic remains of ancient pigment granules. They offer clues to the colors of winged dinosaurs. The pigment granules are believed to have been present in the ancient world.
But a new study by a Drexel University graduate proposes a different explanation. It has ruffled a few feathers in the academic community, however.
Alison E. Moyer, now a Ph.D. student at North Carolina State University, says the cigar-shaped "microbodies," just one-millionth of a meter long, may be very old bacteria.
Their size and shape, among other attributes, do not rule out either interpretation.
"You have these little structures that look very similar, and so we have to be careful," said Moyer, lead author of the paper published this month in the journal Scientific Reports.
The study has prompted a heated social media reaction. One researcher has suggested that the shapes are pigment granules, or melanosomes.
Others in the field have been more accepting of Moyer's work, recognizing it as a helpful challenge to established beliefs.
Such give-and-take is perhaps more common in paleontology than in other fields of science, because the only surefire way to answer certain questions about the past is to go back in time.
Failing that, Moyer found a living time machine:
Paleontologists consider birds to be modern dinosaurs, so Moyer took chicken feathers and grew bacteria on them. The result was the development of bacteria on the feathers of the birds.
She compared the bacteria with the pigment granules inside the feathers.
The shape, size and distribution of the fossil impressions suggested bacteria, though pigment granules are still possible.
Her work was supervised by Mary H. Schweitzer, N.C. State paleontologist.
Among her co-authors was Ken Lacovara, associate professor of geology and paleontology at Drexel.
Matthew D. Shawkey, an associate professor at the University of Akron's integrated bioscience program, said on Twitter that the new study was "bad science."
Shawkey, who was involved in a 2012 study that found that the winged dinosaur Archaeopteryx feathers were black, raised several objections to Moyer.
Among them was the juxtaposition of two pictures - one showing cigar-shaped bacteria on a chicken feather, the other showing similar-shaped impressions. They were found within the remains of a fossil feather from Archaeopteryx.
At a glance, the dark shapes in the two pictures appear to be about the same size.
Shawkey's beef is that the images are reproduced at different scale (as indicated in the fine print) and that the bacteria on the chicken feathers are actually four times as long as the impressions in the fossils. This means that the bacteria on the chicken feathers are actually four times as long as the impressions in the fossils. It is also true that the bacteria on the chicken feathers are actually four times as long as the impressions in the fossils.
"That's not a good way to have confidence in your paper," Shawkey said.
Moyer counters that the bacteria are closer to twice the size of the fossil impressions.
(To the untrained eye, the graininess of the picture makes it a little difficult to tell who is right.)
In any case, the size of the supposed melanosomes is well within the range of known bacteria's size, Moyer said.
While Shawkey fired off more than a dozen tweets objecting to the paper. Another scientist had a more receptive attitude to the work of Moyer and her colleagues.
"It's always good to take one step back," said Johan Lindgren, an associate professor at Sweden's Lund University.
How did the other scientists conclude anything about the color of dinosaur feathers, if all that remained of the purported pigment granules?
The
By looking at what granule shapes were associated with which colors in modern birds, the researchers determined that different winged dinosaurs were black, gray or brown. The researchers also found that various winged dinosaurs were black, gray or brown.
Or maybe not, maybe not.
Moyer said, "There's a lot of work that needs to be done."
