Chinook tribes welcomed Lewis and Clark when they came to the Lower Columbia River in 1805.
The tribes helped the expedition through the winter, providing food and navigation.
More than 200 years after first contact, the Chinook Indian Nation has a constitution, annual meetings and a tribal council.
They are not recognized by the U.S. state.
"They say we are extinct, but my family still lives on our land," said Kate Elliott.
Lack of recognition of the Chinook tribes could change the 35-year process the U.S. Interior Department uses to recognize tribes.
Changes include moving the earliest date for tribes to provide documentation of existence into the 1930s, and allowing under certain circumstances tribes to reapply for federal recognition.
Federal recognition makes tribal members and governments eligible for federal budget assistance, health care, and other services, according to the BIA.
A tribe that is federally recognized is a sovereign nation. It has the right to create and enforce laws, regulate activities within its jurisdiction, and determine membership criteria.
For some Washington tribes, the changes could make recognition easier.
However, these tribes say the changes still mean a long road ahead to recognition, as they have sought for years.
"We are pleased by the proposed changes, but we know that this process is far from over," said Sue Hall, Snohomish Tribe of Indians, who has fought for federal recognition for more than 30 years.
The Chinooks and the Duwamish Tribe received federal recognition in 2001 during the Clinton government.
But then-President George W. Bush's administration quickly overturned that recognition, saying the Duwamish had had a temporary lapse in tribal government and did not always live in a cohesive community.
One change, called "Part 83," would require tribes to show community influence or authority from 1934 instead of "historical times," as required by existing law.
This could help Chinooks because the nation has more modern documentation than its oral history, Elliott said, and will level the playing field for all tribes looking for recognition.
"You can't expect the tribes whose treaties weren't honored to get papers, especially when almost everyone was sent to boarding school," said Elliott, referring to the U.S. government's practice of forcibly removing Indian children from their families and sending them to boarding schools.
"How can you tell people they can't do Indian, and then later have to prove they were keeping documents from 1851 or 1855?"
The current rule forces tribes to relive "difficult times in their history," said Michael Willis, a Washington lawyer with Hobbs, Straus, Dean & Walker LLP, an Indian law firm.
The changes would also allow tribes to re-petition for recognition under certain circumstances.
However, tribes whose federal recognition petitions were rejected would need the consent of third parties, such as other tribes who have appealed recognition.
"That last-minute stipulation, and if it sticks, is really heartbreaking," he said.
"If there is anything we are, we are stubborn, and that is why we are here.
We will not give up.
This is the last draft."
Duwamish Tribe Chairwoman Cecile Hansen said the proposed changes do not take away from the tribe's ultimate goal: to regain lost and won recognition.
"No Indian should have to prove his or her identity," Hansen said.
"I have done so for 39 years.
Why should I go through a new application?"
The BIA will hold hearings in July for the public and tribes to comment on the changes.
The announcement, made May 22, says it will make tribal recognition more efficient and transparent.
JERUSALEM - Prof. Mohammed Dajani expected criticism when he visited Auschwitz last month with Palestinian students.
But he didn't expect the uproar that followed.
In comments online, Palestinian critics called it treason.
Friends advised the professor to keep a low profile, avoid campus life and consider a holiday abroad, he recalled.
"People said we supported Zionism and propaganda as if we gave up our rights," Dajani said in an interview in East Jerusalem, the Arab side of the city, which Palestinians want as state capital.
The Al Quds University American studies director, Dajani heads Wasatia, which seeks to promote a culture of moderation and reconciliation among Palestinians - values often found lacking in the war with Israel.
He's no stranger to trouble.
Dajani said he came up with the idea to take students to Auschwitz three years ago when he visited The Aladdin Project, a Paris-based organization promoting understanding between Jews and Muslims.
"In my community, you see a lot of Holocaust denial.
People don't want to acknowledge suffering," Dajani said.
"I didn't want to be a bystander and I wanted to bring more awareness to Palestinians of this problem."
Because of its crucial role in Israel's creation, the Holocaust has political overtones in Palestinian society, where many believe their people were persecuted in Europe.
Palestinians consider their mass displacement and expulsion in the war that followed the establishment of Israel a "catastrophe" of similar magnitude, just as Jews will begin marking Holocaust Remembrance Day Sunday.
"Holocaust is not taught in Palestinian universities," he said.
"It is a history ignored, described as a Zionist plot to create a Jewish state in Palestine or Zionist propaganda."
Dajani has publicly advocated Holocaust education and devoted part of his class to the topic.
The trip to Auschwitz was part of a research project at the Friedrich Schiller University in Jena, Germany, which also involved Israeli students visiting the West Bank Palestinian refugee camp Deheishe.
The project was funded by the German Research Foundation, and Israeli students are studying conflict resolution at Ben Gurion University in Beersheba.
Organizing the visit to Auschwitz was difficult.
Thirty people were chosen from some 70 applicants, but three West Bank university students withdrew due to peer pressure.
"We didn't want to jeopardize the visit, so we kept it very quiet." He said applications were sought "by word of mouth." The trip is believed to be the first by Palestinian students.
The group visited Krakow, where it learned about Jewish life before the Holocaust, visiting synagogues and neighborhoods.
In Auschwitz, the group heard from two Israelis and a Polish Holocaust survivor.
"I visited a Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago, but this was different," said Al Quds graduate student Salim Sweidan.
"When you step on that soil, it leaves a big impression."
"People said we showed sympathy for the occupier, but I say no, we showed sympathy for the people killed there," he said.
Nasser al-Qadi, a American studies student, said he joined the trip because it was "our humanitarian duty" despite the Israeli dispute.
"We went there for education and we think there is no limit to education," added al Qadi.
He said Israelis should also recognize the Palestinian trauma of expulsion and displacement after Israel was created.
Abdullah Dweikat, a columnist at the Palestinian news site Watan, said: "We reject the killing of any person based on religion, race or political opinion, but we also reject the injury and suffering our people suffer every day from occupiers.
Sweidan said many people have privately supported the participants, calling their visit a brave step and acknowledging the public environment kept them from speaking out.
Dajani, a scion of a prominent Palestinian family from Jerusalem, was active in Lebanon's Fatah movement in the 1960s and studied in the United States. In 1993, Israel allowed him to return to his home city to look after his father.
He said treatment by an Israeli hospital for his father and other Arab patients turned his attitude toward Israelis, whom he viewed as oppressive occupiers.
"Israel conflict has poisoned the entire view of the Holocaust," Dajani said, adding that accepting the event "undermines the national narrative."
His response to critics was simple.
"I did it because it was right," he said.
"I would do it again.
Three weeks ago, if you ordered a three- egg omelet at Roxanne's Cafe in Parkville, a suburb of Kansas City, you'd probably get a five- egg omelet.
Today, Roxanne is stricter.
A three egg omelet means three.
No more or less.
"I have a cook who cannot control it.
She can't cook eggs right now.
I told him to make two scrambled eggs and he made six eggs, "Gray said.
Egg prices at Roxanne's Cafe have increased greatly in the past month.
On May 5, Gray paid $17.55 for 15 eggs.
She paid out $42.85.
Roxanne's is not alone.
Some supermarkets have increased egg prices from 99 cents to $3 in the past.
Restaurants, cafes and bakeries across the nation are suffering from recent bird flu outbreaks expanding through the Midwest.
"This is the most devastating foreign animal disease in the U.S. for any species," the Missouri Egg Council Executive Director Jo Manhart said.
47 million chickens and turkeys have been lost since the virus began.
Iowa, the nation's top egg producer, is hit the hardest.
More than 30 million chickens are affected.
More than 53,000 birds have been affected in Missouri and Arkansas.
In Kansas, only 10 birds were killed in a flock.
Despite the small outbreak, the Kansas Department of Agriculture has banned live chickens and turkeys from appearing at state and county fairs in 2015.
The increase has cut egg production.
Last week, the U.S. Agriculture Department cut its domestic production forecast to 95.9 billion this year.
The virus has struck at a time when eggs are generally popular; the U.S. produced nearly 100 billion eggs last year.
Protein-rich diets are growing in popularity and last year each person ate 263 eggs on average, a 30-year high.
"The egg business was on a roll," said Kevin Burkum, American Egg Board senior vice president.
Like many cafes, Roxanne's is trying to offset high egg prices.
In addition to portion control, owner Gray changed the daily specials to include non- egg meals, such as catfish and goulash.
The last resort was the desperate measure: raising menu prices.
At the time, the wholesale price for a dozen eggs was 63 cents.
That has almost quadrupled to $2.35, said Brian Moscogiuri, a Urner Barry trade publication reporter.
Besides bakeries and restaurants, supermarkets are also affected by the virus.
Some are the usual suspects - ice cream and bakery items - but other products are made with egg, too, like marshmallow cream, mayonnaise and shampoo.
Hen House said its costs had increased about 40 percent in the last couple of weeks, some of which was passed on to consumers.
Consumers noticed.
To get eggs, Kansas City-area baker and blogger Rachel Ciordas traded at the supermarket for a farmers market.
"It's cheaper and same price to buy a farmer."
It's not clear how the virus spread from wild birds, which carry the H5N2 virus, to confined poultry.
Traditional wisdom says the virus is spread by physical contact, like bird droppings.
But Iowa State University egg expert Hong Wei Xin believes the virus particles can also travel through the air and seep into cracks of hatcheries and barns.
Heat kills the virus, and outbreaks are expected to decrease in summer months.
Xin hopes that by the time summer ends and wild birds again migrate into the Midwestern states, enough research will have been completed to stop further cases.
But there are no promises.
The cooks didn't care how many eggs they put in the pan, and owner Roxanne Gray allowed it.
San Jose, Calif. - To rearrange the heavens, scientists are planning to pluck, push and park an asteroid in between.
While we all try to avoid space rocks, NASA has a $ 105 million, ambitious plan to drag a spacecraft to Earth.
It's the space age equivalent of bringing Muhammad the mountain and the first step to Mars.
"Our goal is to go out there and rendezvous with it and then get it into the hands of people who can understand it," said NASA Ames Research Center Director David Korsmeyer.
Asteroids command respect as a large one could play with us.
February's twofer - a small and a big one - only added to the anxiety.
But it's also valuable, and pursuing it could take us deeper.
That's because a vehicle is much better than a fuel rocket.
With new NASA funds, engineers want to design a solar-electric car that makes the slow, sustainable journey to find an asteroid.
It's the journey, not the destination, that matters.
Once it finds a suitable rock to orbit, it can push, tug or harpoon the asteroid.
Or you could stuff it into a big bag or lasso it like a 21st century Roy Rogers rope trick.
"As a space-faring country, it has been more than 40 years since we have been to deep space," said Stanford aeronautics professor G. Scott Hubbard, who directed NASA Ames and designed the Mars Pathfinder mission.
"I have to get my "chops," he said.
"It's a technology exploration for the future."
The "Asteroid Retrieval Mission" is being developed in Washington, D.C., for an agency that has retired the shuttle fleet and abandoned a moon landing plan.
Last year, the California Institute of Technology's Keck Institute for Space Studies idea found favor at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
In his inaugural address, Obama vowed to land on an asteroid by 2025.
He has a cooler reception in Congress budget wrangling.
Technology to bring home an asteroid will increase costs greatly, warned Stanford's Hubbard.
The $ 105 million is only a down payment on a huge project.
"I would advise the developers to be very clear-minded and open-eyed about the final cost," he said.
During the summer, Ames and other NASA centers gather scientists to discuss details.
At Ames, "we can give them more tools to succeed," Korsmeyer said.
For example, Ames scientists could develop tools like their CheMin device on the Mars rover to analyze Martian rock composition.
Ames could also use sensors to detect an asteroid.
Most asteroids are too far away to be useful when they don't hurt people.
Some are large.
But smaller ones, say, the size of a dump truck, can be grabbed by unmanned ships, NASA says.
Asteroids were formed about 4.6 billion years ago in our solar system and hold clues about our origins and perhaps valuable metals.
While the main goal is not to protect Earth from a space rock, the technology could help divert a larger rogue asteroid, said Tom Jones, a planetary scientist and B612 Foundation adviser.
It will be hard to find the perfect asteroid because it will be too small to reflect light.
They don't want to be captured.
NASA called it "unstable."
It is moving at 17,000 mph, perfectly in orbit and spinning.
It may not be solid, like granite, but rather a mixture of ice.
Then comes the challenge to catch it.
Korsmeyer calls it a "Mathematical game."
Catch a baseball while riding a Ferris wheel.
Once caught, it was pushed or pulled and brought near the moon.
There, remote ships would chip away chunks for analysis.
Astronomers would visit it.
"It's not an easy task," Korsmeyer said.
"You set up a whole set of balls to try to find a pocket."
On June 28, 2009, famous physicist Stephen Hawking held a party at the University of Cambridge with iced champagne, balloons and hors d'oeuvres.
All were invited but none showed up.
Hawking had expected as much because he only sent out invitations once he'd won.
It was, he said, "a welcome party for future time travelers" and a tongue-in-cheek test of his 1992 conjecture that it was impossible to travel back in time.
Hawking could be on the wrong side.
Recent experiments support time travel feasibility, at least from a mathematical point of view.
The study cuts to the core of our understanding of the universe, and the prospect of time travel, far from being a science fiction topic, has profound implications for basic physics and practical applications such as cryptography.
The source of the time travel theory is that our best physical theories contain no ban on going backwards in time.
Einstein's theory, called general relativity, describes gravity as the warping of spacetime by energy and matter.
A very strong gravitational field, like that of a black hole, could fundamentally warp the fabric of existence so that spacetime bends.
This would create a CTC (closed timelike curve) to be traversed to travel back in time.
Hawking and many physicists view CTCs as unacceptable, as any macroscopic object passing through would create paradoxes of cause and effect.
However, in a 1991 model proposed by theorist David Deutsch, CTCs could be avoided at the quantum scale because fundamental particles only follow fuzzy probability rules, rather than strict determinism.
"It's intriguing that general relativity predicts these paradoxes, but then you consider them in quantum mechanical terms," says Tim Ralph, University of Queensland.
"It makes you wonder if it's important to develop a theory that merges quantum mechanics with general relativity."
Recently, Ralph and PhD student Martin Ringbauer led a team that simulated Deutsch's CTCs experimentally, testing and confirming many of his theory.
Their results appear in Nature Communications.
Much of their simulation revolved around how Deutsch's model deals with the "grandfather paradox," where someone uses a CTC to murder his own grandfather to prevent his own birth.
Deutsch's grandfather paradox quantum solution works like this:
Instead of a human crossing a CTC to kill his ancestor, imagine a basic particle turning a switch on the machine that created it.
If the switch is flipped, the machine emits the particle back into the CTC; if it's not flipped, it emits nothing.
There is no deterministic certainty of the emission of the particle, only a distribution of probabilities.
In the quantum realm, Deutsch postulated self-consistency; any particle entering one end of a CTC must emerge at the other end with identical properties.
Therefore, a particle emitted by the machine with a probability of one half would enter the CTC and come out the other end of the switch with a probability of one half returning to the other end of the switch.
If the particle were a person, it would be born with a one-half chance of killing her grandfather and a one-half chance of avoiding death. That's good enough to close the causative loop and escape the paradox.
Although strange, this solution follows known quantum mechanics laws.
In their new simulation, Ralph and Ringbauer used Deutsch's model to study interactions between polarized photons in a quantum system that is mathematically equivalent to a CTC- traversing photon.
"We encode their polarization so that the first acts as a kind of second incarnation," says Ringbauer.
So instead of sending a person through a time loop, they created a stunt double of the person and ran it through a time-loop simulator to see if it would exactly look like the original.
By measuring the polarization states of the second photon after interaction, the team successfully demonstrated that Deutsch is consistent.
"Of course, we're not sending anything back, but the simulation allows us to study strange developments in quantum mechanics."
Those "weird evolutions" enabled by a CTC, Ringbauer notes, would have remarkable practical applications, such as cloning fundamental particles to break quantum cryptography.
"If you can clone quantum states," he says, "you can violate the Heisenberg uncertainty principle," which prevents accurate measurements of certain variables, such as position and momentum, at the same time.
"But if you clone this system, you can measure one quantity in the first and another in the second, and decrypt a message."
"When quantum mechanics has CTCs, it allows very powerful processing tasks, much more than we believe normal or classical quantum computers can do," said Todd Brun, a quantum physicist at the University of Southern California.
But this experiment cannot test the Deutsch model itself, which can be done only with a real CTC."
Deutsch's model is not the only one though.
In 2009, Massachusetts Institute of Technology theorist Seth Lloyd proposed an alternative, less radical model of CTCs using quantum teleportation and a postselection technique instead of Deutsch's quantum consistency.
With Canadian partners, Lloyd conducted successful lab simulations in 2011.
"Deutsch's theory destroys correlation weirdly," Lloyd says.
A Deutschian CTC traveler emerges in a universe that has nothing to do with the one she left in the future.
Post-selected CTCs, however, retain correlations, returning the time traveler to the same universe. "
This property of Lloyd's model would make CTCs less powerful processing information, but still far superior to what computers can do in real life.
"The problems our CTCs can help solve are almost like finding needles in haystacks," Lloyd says.
"But a Deutschian CTC could solve the reason haystacks exist."
But Lloyd recognizes the speculative nature of CTCs.
"I don't know which model is right.
Maybe they are both wrong," he said.
Of course, the other possibility is that Hawking is right and CTCs "simply do not exist."
Time travel party planners should save the champagne for themselves-- future guests may not come.
If animals evolved in an alien ocean, what would they look like?
They may be much like humans, a team of researchers says.
A new study of some species of ocean swimming found an amazing and elegant ratio in the way they move.
This ratio, published in PLOS Biology, shows a surprising convergence of unrelated animals - and could help engineers build better swimming robots.
Previous work has shown animal behavior as it moves through fluids (whether water or air).
It's part of a trend to understand animal physics - perhaps to design more agile robots that use these rules of movement, said Jack Costello, a marine biologist at Providence College.
"This is a growing wave of learning about biological motion.
For many years, people accepted generalizations about thrust production, Costello said. He studied shared movement patterns in swimming and flying birds.
A Northwestern University team began wondering about common movement rules when studying the black ghost knifefish.
The black ghost knifefish lives in South America in freshwater streams. It mainly moves using an undulating fin.
This is different from trout and salmon, which move their tail (and the rear of their bodies) back and forth.
The knifefish uses a wave to undulate its thin fin, which runs the length of its body.
Fin swimmers are an entire host of sea critters. Some have a single fin running along the length of their bodies, while others have a pair, one on each side.
Sometimes it makes them look (in the case of cuttlefish) like they're wearing a fluttering tutu.
During their previous work on the ghost black knifefish, the scientists noticed that the fish's maximum speed happened when two waves could fit across its fin, and wondered if this was a general rule.
The team studied 22 different species of finned swimmers, using video, computer modeling and lab studies to determine if any pattern existed.
They even trimmed the fin on a fin-swimming robot to see whether that made any difference with a ribbon strung underneath.
They found a pattern in their movement, but not what they had expected.
As it moved, each animal followed a specific pattern: about 20 to 1 between the length and the amplitude (or height) of each wavelength.
Each full wiggle of the fin was 20 times as long as the total movement.
For each species they studied, including skates, rays, the Persian carpet flatworm and cuttlefish, the ratio remained 20 to 1.
"We found that our prediction was correct in every animal," said Northwestern mechanical engineer Neelesh Patankar, one of the lead authors.
The researchers think this pattern has arisen at least eight times independently because it maximizes a swimmer's ability to move with speed.
A thousand more finned-swimming species may have the same ratio, researchers said.
"Physics limits the types of solutions nature can survive and have," Patankar said.
And if complex alien life using a fin to swim were found on another planet, this same ratio would probably emerge, said Patankar's co-author, Malcolm MacIver.
"There are only a few ways an animal can move properly," MacIver said.
If they moved through liquid water on another planet, the same constraints would apply.
"Water is water," he said.
The results may help scientists better build underwater robots that swim quickly and effectively.
Such skills are critical, for example, when underwater vehicles deal with oil spills, and they cannot swim as well as these animals.
"Underwater robots really need more agility," MacIver said.
Obama authorized U.S. airstrikes on Thursday night in northern Iraq and warned they would be launched to defend Americans and protect civilians under siege.
In a late-night statement at the White House, Obama said American planes have carried out airdrops of humanitarian aid to Iraqi religious minorities, many of whom are in desperate need of food and water.
"America is here to help," he said.
It threatened to renew U.S. military involvement in the long-running sectarian war.
It was American engagement in Iraq's deepest since troops withdrew in late 2011 after nearly a decade.
Obama, who spoke in a calm and serious tone, has built much of his legacy on ending Iraq's "dumb war."
Food and water supplies have been delivered to tens of thousands of Yazidis without food or water.
The Yazidis, who follow an ancient religion linked to Zoroastrianism, said the Islamic State group had given them a choice of converting to Islam, or fleeing or death.
Obama said the airdrops were made at the Iraqi government's request.
Mindful of the public's aversion to another long war, Obama recognized that the prospect of new U.S. military action worried many people.
He vowed not to return combat troops to Iraq and said there was no U.S. military option.
"As president, I will not drag the United States into another war in Iraq," he said.
Even so, he said he would authorize airstrikes if Islamic State advances on American troops in Irbil, the U.S. Consulate there.
The troops were sent to Iraq earlier this year to respond to the group's rapid spread across the Syria-Iraq border.
"When American people are at risk, we will act," he said.
"It is my duty as commander-in-chief."
He also said he would authorize military strikes if necessary to help protect Iraqi civilians.
The Pentagon said two C-130 and a C-17 cargo aircraft delivered a total of 72 bundles of food and water.
They were escorted by two F/A-18 jets from an undisclosed base.
The planes delivered 8,000 pre-packaged meals and 5,300 gallons of fresh drinking water and were over the drop area for less than 15 minutes.
The mission to assist the Yazidis is part of the U.S. mandate to assist around the world, when the U.S. has the unique capabilities.
Officials said the United States was ready to carry out more humanitarian airdrops, but they did not say how soon that might happen.
The administration says it believes the unilateral U.S. strikes would be consistent with international law because Washington has asked for military action.
They also said that Obama had the right to act himself to protect American citizens.
He authorized strikes on Syria last summer after it used chemical weapons, but they never took place, in part because of political concerns and an international agreement to remove chemical weapons stocks.
The president has also faced constant calls to act on humanitarian grounds in Syria, where more than 170,000 people have died.
Critics, including some Republicans, say Obama's cautious approach to Syria has allowed the group to grow strong enough to cross the Iraq border and make rapid gains.
Republican Sen. John McCain of Arizona and South Carolina on Thursday praised Obama's action, but said more needed to be done.
"This should include military and other assistance to our Kurdish, Iraqi, and Syrian partners" and support for Sunni Iraqis fighting the militants, they said in a statement.
Obama sent about 800 U.S. forces to Iraq earlier this year and they have been largely split between joint operation centers in Irbil and Baghdad.
More than half provide security for U.S. and embassy staff.
No plans were made to evacuate those Americans but intelligence flights over Irbil were conducted with both manned and unmanned aircraft to monitor deteriorating conditions.
If the president does order airstrikes on Iraq, he is all but certain to do so without congressional approval.
Lawmakers left town last week for a five-week recess and have not returned.
But the White House was in contact with some lawmakers on Thursday, including Ohio's House Speaker John Boehner and Kentucky's Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell.
Some Republicans have urged the president to act, but he has said he doesn't need legislative approval.
BOSTON - Months after winning a national title, Harvard's debate team loses to a New York team.
The incident occurred at a maximum-security prison where inmates can take courses from nearby Bard College, and where inmates have formed a popular debate club.
Last month, they invited Ivy League students and this year's national debate winners over.
Harvard's debate team were world champions in 2014.
Inmates are building their own reputation.
In the two years since, the prisoners have beaten teams from the University of Vermont and U.S. Military Academy at West Point.
The annual competition with West Point has grown into a rivalry.
At Bard, those who teach the students are not surprised by their success.
"Students at the prison are held to the same standards, expectations and rigor as on the main campus," said Max Kenner, Bard Prison Initiative executive director.
"The students are serious.
In support of Harvard, the inmates had to defend a position they opposed: that public schools could reject students whose parents had come illegally.
The inmates presented arguments the Harvard team didn't address.
Three Harvard students answered, and a neutral panel declared the inmates winners.
"The fact that we won is nice, but it's not the main thing," Kenner said. The club helps students express what they've learned.
Harvard students weren't immediately available for comment, but a team member posted a comment on Facebook.
"There are few teams we are prouder of losing a debate to than the incredibly smart and articulate team we had this weekend."
"We're very grateful to Bard and the Eastern New York Correctional Facility for their work and this great event."
Inmates can earn various degrees through the program, taught by Bard students.
About 15 percent of all male prisoners at Napanoch are enrolled at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility.
Graduates continue their studies at Columbia and Yale universities, Kenner said.
While in prison, they learn without the help of the Internet, using college resources.
"They take advantage of every opportunity," Kenner said.
AFRAQ, Jordan - When U.S. President Barack Obama said he would delay U.S. missile strikes on the Syrian regime, people were angry and scared.
"If they must strike, strike once and for all and destroy the regime," said Um Hafiz, who fled his village in southern Syria in January with his husband and five children.
Other residents said Sunday that Obama's original decision to seek congressional approval for a military operation had emboldened Syrian President Bashar Assad to attack the rebel-held city of Zaatari, about five miles inside Jordan.
"We were happy when we first heard that the U.S. would attack, but then we were afraid Bashar would attack the camp," said Raad Zoubi, a 23-year-old construction worker who has lived in the camp for the past year.
"People are angry, but we will be happy if Americans attack."
Expectations ran high in the city late last week after the United States said it had "with high confidence" determined the Assad regime was behind an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack in Damascus that killed at least 1,429 civilians.
Camp residents heard Obama's decision to delay the operation during a live broadcast Saturday of Arabic-language TV channels received over satellite dishes sprouting on the camp's trash-strewn streets.
"Everyone was watching," said Zoubi, a 23-year-old baker from Taybeh, where anti-Assad protests erupted on March 18, 2011.
Coming from a country where the Assad family has ruled for four decades, most of the camp's more than 120,000 residents probably did not understand Obama's decision to seek congressional approval.
Fadil Issa, 35, who has lived in the city since leaving his village near Daara eight months ago, said many refugees think Obama stopped the U.S. strikes because he feared a U.S. strike on Iran.
"People are upset by the delay.
I don't know why they fear Iran," he said.
As refugees tried to understand Obama's decision, life went on in Zaatari.
including the nightly return to Syria by refugees so tired of heat, filth and crime in the camp, they brave the risky border crossing to get back to their homes.
"What will happen the worst?
We would rather die in our homeland," said Ahmad Mohammad Hussein, 28, who was arrested during Daara protests against Assad and spent a year in prison.
"We can no longer do this."
Hussein waited in the heat with scores of other men, women and children for the buses that would leave them at the Jordanian military-operated unofficial crossings.
They would then travel to Syrian territory held by the Free Syrian Army, a rebel amalgam.
Buses are limited and seats are first come, first served.
So the crowd charged the cars as they pulled up in a cloud of dust, pushing through the doors. Their meager possessions were in old suitcases and cloth bundles.
Three armored cars of Jordanian security forces stood by, on guard against violence.
The buses were followed by a truck with windows cut into its sides and stairs leading down.
Only men and teenage boys appeared to enter the trailer, some pushing their bags through the windows before clambering through, others crushing their way behind it.
"It's unbearable here," said Hafiz, watching the scene with several daughters beside her.
"Even with the rocket, it's better here.
We are not afraid.
All that God has written will happen."
They are thought to be microscopic pigment granules that offer clues to the colors of winged dinosaurs.
But a new study from Drexel University offers another explanation, which has ruffled some academic feathers.
Alison E. Moyer, a Ph.D. student at North Carolina State University, says the small, cigar-shaped bodies may simply be old bacteria impressions.
Its size and shape, among other features, cannot be ruled out, she says.
"We have these little structures that look very similar, so we have to be careful," said Moyer, who led the paper in the Scientific Reports journal.
The study has prompted a heated social media reaction from one researcher who favors the idea of pigment granules, melanosomes.
Others in the field have accepted Moyer's work as a useful challenge to traditional views.
Perhaps in paleontology this kind of give-and-take is common, as the only surefire way to answer certain questions about ancient world would be to travel in a time machine.
After all, Moyer found a time machine: a chicken.
Paleontologists consider birds to be dinosaurs, so Moyer grew bacteria on chicken feathers.
She compared the bacteria with pigment granules inside feathers to oblong impressions found in winged dinosaurs' fossilized feathers.
The size, shape, and distribution of the fossil impressions suggested bacteria, she said, but it could be pigment granules.
The work was led by N.C. State paleontologist Mary H. Schweitzer.
His co-author is Ken Lacovara, professor of geology and paleontology at Drexel.
Matthew D. Shawkey, an integrated science professor at the University of Akron, tweeted that the study was "bad science."
Shawkey, who studies showed the winged dinosaur Archaeopteryx's feathers were black, had several objections to Moyer's paper.
The pair of images showed cigar-shaped bacteria on a chicken feather, and similar impressions found in a fossil feather from Archaeopteryx.
The two dark shapes in the image appear about the same size.
Shawkey's beef is that images are reproduced at a different scale (in the fine print) and that the impressions in the fossils are four times as long as chicken feathers.
"It's not a good way to build trust," Shawkey said.
Moyer counters that the bacteria is nearly twice as long as the fossil.
(The graininess of the picture makes it difficult to tell who is right.)
The alleged melanosomes' size falls well within the range of known bacteria, Moyer said.
While Shawkey sent more than a dozen tweets objecting to the paper, another scientist had a more receptive attitude to Moyer and her colleagues' work as pigment granules.
"It's always good to take one step back," said Sweden's associate professor, Johan Lindgren.
How did other scientists conclude the color of dinosaur feathers, if their fossilized imprints were all that remained of the pigment granules?
The key is form.
By studying which granule shapes were related to which colors, scientists concluded that winged dinosaurs were black, gray or brown.
Or maybe not.
Moyer said, "There's a lot of work to be done."
