SEATTLE — The Chinook tribes greeted Lewis and Clark when the explorers arrived at the Lower Columbia River in 1805.
The tribes helped members of the expedition through the winter, bringing them food and assisting with navigation.
More than 200 years after that first contact, the five tribes that now make up the Chinook Indian Nation have a constitution, a tribal council and annual meetings.
They are not, however, recognized by the U.S. government.
"They say we are extinct, but my family still lives on our indigenous land," Councilwoman Kate Elliott said.
The Chinook tribes' lack of recognition could change under proposed revisions to the 35-year process the U.S. Interior Department uses to officially recognize Indian tribes.
Changes include moving the earliest date from which tribes must provide documentation of their existence into the 1930s and allowing tribes to reapply for federal recognition under certain circumstances, something previously prohibited.
Federal recognition is desirable because it makes tribal members and governments eligible for federal budget assistance as well as services such as health care, according to the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA).
A federally recognized tribe is considered a sovereign nation that has a government-to-government relationship with the United States and possesses the right to create and enforce laws, regulate activities within its jurisdiction and determine membership criteria.
For some Washington tribes, the proposed changes could make it easier to achieve federal recognition.
These tribes, however, acknowledge that the changes would still mean a long road ahead in gaining the recognition they have sought for years.
"We are pleased by the proposed changes; however, we know that there is still a ways to go in the process," said Sue Hall, vice chair of the Snohomish Tribe of Indians. The tribe has fought for more than 30 years to gain federal recognition.
The Chinooks, as well as the Seattle-area Duwamish Tribe, received federal recognition in 2001 during the very end of the Clinton administration.
But both tribes' recognitions were quickly overturned by then-President George W. Bush's administration. It said the Duwamish had had a temporary lapse in tribal government and did not always live in a cohesive community and the Chinooks had not existed continuously through history.
One proposed change, known as the "Part 83 process," requires tribes to show community and political influence or authority only from 1934 rather than from "historical times," the requirement in existing law.
This could be helpful to the Chinooks, since the nation has more documentation from the modern era that goes beyond its oral history, Elliott said. It will help "level the playing field" for all tribes seeking recognition.
"You can't expect the tribes whose treaties weren't honored to get paperwork, especially when almost everyone was sent to boarding school," Elliott said. In the 1800s and 1930s, the U.S. government forcibly removed Indian children from their families and placed them in boarding schools in an effort to strip them of their culture and "civilize" them.
"How can you tell people you can't do anything Indian, but later, when you go to file, they have to prove from 1851 or 1855 that they have been keeping documents?"
The current rule forces tribes to relive the more "difficult times in their history," said Michael Willis, an attorney with the Washington, D.C., office of Hobbs, Straus, Dean & Walker LLP. The office focuses on legal issues affecting Indian Country.
The proposed changes would also allow tribes, under certain circumstances, to re-petition for recognition.
In order to do so, however, tribes whose petitions for federal recognition had been rejected would have to have the consent of third parties, other tribes for example, that previously had appealed their recognition.
"That last-minute stipulation, if it sticks and there is no waiver, is really heartbreaking," Elliott said.
"But if there is one thing we are, we are stubborn, which is the reason we are still here.
"We are not giving up.
This is only a final draft."
C
"No Indian person in the United States should have to prove who they are," Hansen said.
"I have been doing this for 39 years.
Why should I have to go through another set of regulations?"
The BIA will hold hearings in July for federally recognized tribes and the public to comment on the proposed changes.
Announced May 22, they are part of an effort the department says will make tribal recognition more efficient and transparent.
JERUSALEM — Professor Mohammed Dajani expected criticism when he took Palestinian students to Poland last month to visit the site of the Auschwitz concentration camp.
But he wasn't prepared for the uproar that followed.
In online posts and comments, Palestinian critics denounced the visit as treason.
Acquaintances counseled the professor to keep a low profile, stay away from his university campus and consider taking a vacation abroad, he recalled.
"People said we were giving support to Zionism and promoting its propaganda, as if we were giving up on our rights," Dajani said in an interview in East Jerusalem, the city's Arab side, which Palestinians claim as the capital of a future state.
The director of the American studies program at Al Quds University, Dajani heads an organization called Wasatia. Its declared aim is to promote a culture of moderation and reconciliation among Palestinians — values that often seem in short supply in the festering conflict with Israel.
He is no stranger to controversy.
Dajani said the idea of taking students to Auschwitz took shape after he made a journey to the site three years ago on a visit sponsored by The Aladdin Project, an organization that promotes understanding between Muslims and Jews.
"In my community you see a lot of ignorance of the Holocaust, denial of the Holocaust.
People don't want to recognize the suffering of the other," Dajani said.
"I felt that I did not want to be a bystander, and wanted to bring more awareness and consciousness among Palestinians of this issue."
Because of its crucial role in the creation of Israel, the Holocaust is freighted with political overtones in Palestinian society. Many think that their people have paid the price for the persecution of the Jews in Europe.
Palestinians consider their mass displacement and expulsion in the war that followed the establishment of Israel a "catastrophe" of similar magnitude. They recall it in annual commemorations just as Jews will mark Holocaust Remembrance Day this year beginning at sundown Sunday.
"The Holocaust is not taught in Palestinian schools and universities," Dajani said.
"It is a history ignored, mentioned as part of a plot to establish a Jewish state in Palestine, or as Zionist propaganda with exaggerated figures."
Dajani has advocated publicly for Holocaust education among Palestinians and has devoted part of his own classes to the subject.
The trip to Auschwitz was arranged as part of a reconciliation research project sponsored by the Friedrich Schiller University in Jena, Germany. The project also included a visit by Israeli students to Deheishe, a Palestinian refugee camp in the West Bank.
The project was funded by the German Research Foundation, and the Israeli students and faculty, some of whom accompanied the Palestinians to Auschwitz, are studying conflict resolution at Ben Gurion University in Beersheba.
Organizing the Palestinian visit to Auschwitz was a sensitive undertaking.
Thirty people were selected from some 70 applicants, though three students from Birzeit University in the West Bank withdrew under peer pressure, Dajani said.
"We didn't want to jeopardize the visit, so we kept it very quiet," he added, noting that applications were sought "by word of mouth," and there was no prior announcement of the trip, thought to be the first of its kind by Palestinian students.
The itinerary included a trip to Krakow, where participants learned about Jewish life before the Holocaust, visiting former Jewish neighborhoods and synagogues.
In Auschwitz, the group heard from two Holocaust survivors brought by the Israelis, and a Polish guide.
"I visited the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago, but here it was different," said Salim Sweidan, a former graduate student at Al Quds who joined the trip.
"When you step on the soil where millions were killed, it leaves a big impression."
"People accused us of showing sympathy with the occupier, but I say no, this was sympathy with the human beings who were killed there," Sweidan added.
Nasser al-Qadi, a master's degree candidate in American studies at Al Quds, said he'd joined the trip because it was "our humanitarian duty, regardless of our rift with the Israeli side."
"We went there for education, and we believe that there are no restrictions over education," al Qadi added.
He said Israelis should recognize in similar fashion the Palestinian trauma of displacement and expulsion that accompanied the creation of Israel.
Abdullah Dweikat, a columnist, wrote on the Palestinian news website Watan: "We reject the extermination of any human being because of his religion, nationality or political views, but our humanity also rejects disregarding the wounds and pain of our people, who are being slaughtered every day at the hands of the occupiers.
Sweidan said that despite the public condemnations and disavowals, many people privately expressed support to participants, calling their visit a brave step and acknowledging that the public atmosphere had kept them from speaking out.
Dajani, a scion of a prominent Palestinian family from Jerusalem, was active in the Palestinian Fatah movement in Lebanon in the 1960s and '70s. He studied later in the United States and was allowed back by Israel to his native city in 1993 to care for his father, who was ill with cancer.
He said the treatment of his father and other Arab patients at an Israeli hospital was a turning point in his attitude toward Israelis, whom he'd viewed solely as representatives of an oppressive occupation.
"The conflict with Israel has poisoned the whole attitude toward" the Holocaust, Dajani said, adding that Palestinians perceive acknowledging the event as "undermining the national narrative."
His response to the critics was straightforward.
"I'm doing it because it's the right thing to do," he said.
"I would do it again."
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Three weeks ago, if you ordered a three-egg omelet from Roxanne's Cafe in the Kansas City suburb of Parkville, you would probably get a five-egg omelet instead.
Today, Roxanne's is more
A three-egg omelet means three eggs.
No more, no less.
"I have one cook that I can't control his egging.
He's not allowed to cook any eggs right now.
I told him, 'Make two scrambled eggs for me,' and he probably had six eggs in the pan," Gray said.
That's because egg prices for Roxanne's Cafe have escalated enormously in the past month.
On May 5, Gray paid $17.55 per 15 dozen eggs.
Last week, she paid $42.85.
R Roxanne's Cafe is not alone.
Some supermarkets have seen prices of a dozen eggs grow from 99 cents to $3 in the past few weeks.
Cafes, restaurants and bakeries around the nation are feeling the pain from recent outbreaks of bird flu, or avian influenza, expanding through the Midwest.
"This is the most devastating foreign animal disease that has happened in the U.S. for any species," said Jo Manhart, executive director of the Missouri Egg Council.
Farmers have lost 47 million hens and turkeys since the virus began spreading a few months ago.
The country's top egg-producing state, Iowa, has been hit the hardest.
More than 30 million hens in Iowa have been affected.
More than 53,000 birds in Missouri and 40,000 birds in Arkansas have been affected.
In Kansas, the virus has hit only 10 birds in a backyard flock.
Despite the relatively small outbreak, last week the Kansas Department of Agriculture banned chickens, turkeys and other live birds from appearing in state and county fairs in 2015 for fear of spreading the virus.
The series of outbreaks has cut egg production.
Last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture released a report lowering its forecast for domestic production this year to 95.9 billion.
The virus has struck at a time when eggs were enjoying relative popularity in the food market. Last year, the U.S. produced nearly 100 billion eggs.
Consumers have become increasingly concerned with protein-rich diets, and last year each person ate 263 eggs on average, a 30-year high for egg consumption.
"Prior to this outbreak, eggs were on a roll," Kevin Burkum, senior vice president of marketing at the American Egg Board, said.
R Roxanne's, probably like many cafes, is trying to compensate for high egg prices.
In addition to portion control in her egg-heavy meals, owner Gray changed the daily specials to include meals that don't include eggs, such as goulash and catfish.
Gray winced at the thought of the last resort, a desperate measure: raising menu prices.
Before the outbreak, the wholesale price of a dozen breaking eggs was 63 cents.
That has almost quadrupled to $2.35, according to Brian Moscogiuri, a market reporter for Urner Barry, a food industry trade publication.
Besides restaurants and bakeries, supermarkets are also grappling with the consequences of the virus.
Some of these egg products include the usual suspects — bakery items and ice cream, for example — but other goods are made with egg products as well, such as mayonnaise, marshmallow cream, makeup and shampoo.
Hen House said its cost has gone up about 40 percent in the last couple of weeks, and it has had to pass some of that on to consumers.
consumers have taken note.
For her egg supply, Rachel Ciordas, a baker and blogger from the Kansas City area, has traded in the supermarket for the farmers market.
"Now it's the same price or cheaper to buy from a farmer."
It's not entirely clear how the virus transferred from wild birds, which are carriers of the H5N2 virus, to poultry packed in enclosed facilities.
Conventional wisdom says the virus is transferred through physical contact such as bird droppings.
But Hongwei Xin, director of the Egg Industry Center at Iowa State University, hypothesizes that particles of the virus can also travel through the air and seep into cracks of hatcheries and barns.
Heat kills the virus, and outbreaks are expected to slow under the scorching sun of the summer months.
X hopes that by the time the summer gives way to autumn and wild birds migrate down through the Midwestern states once again, enough research will have been done to curb further outbreaks.
But there are no guarantees.
Cooks weren't too concerned about how many eggs they scooped into the frying pan, and owner Roxanne Gray gladly allowed it.
SAN, Calif. — Scientists are busy planning how to pluck, push and park a spinning asteroid between here and the moon.
While most of us hope to dodge space rocks, NASA has unveiled an ambitious, $105 million plan to build a spaceship to drag one closer to Earth.
It's the Space Age equivalent of bringing the mountain to Muhammad and a first step in our future voyage to Mars.
"Our goal is to go out there and rendezvous — then get it into the hands of the people who can understand it," said David Korsmeyer, director of the Engineering Directorate at Mountain View, Calif.'s NASA Ames Research Center, which will contribute to the project.
A big one could play us like a billiard ball.
February's twofer — a little one rocked Russia and a bigger one was a near miss — only added to the anxiety.
But they're also valuable, and pursuing one could launch us into deeper space.
That's because we'll need a vehicle a whole lot better than a fuel-driven rocket.
With an infusion of new NASA money, engineers hope to design a futuristic solar-electric vehicle that would make a slow, steady and sustainable trip to find an asteroid.
It's the journey, not just the destination, that thrills scientists.
After finding a suitable space rock orbiting our way, the spaceship might push, tug or harpoon the asteroid.
Or it might stuff the rock into a big bag, or perhaps lasso it in some 21st century version of a Roy Rogers rope trick.
"As a space-faring country it has been more than 40 years since we have been to deep space," out where asteroids lurk, said Stanford University aeronautics professor G. Scott Hubbard. He conceived the Mars Pathfinder mission and formerly directed NASA Ames.
"We need to regain our 'chops,' " he said.
"It's a demonstration of space exploration technologies for the future."
The "Asteroid Retrieval Mission" is still under development in Washington, D.C., where it is a major new goal for an agency that has retired the shuttle fleet and grounded a moon-landing plan.
Last year, the idea was suggested by the Keck Institute for Space Studies at the California Institute of Technology. It has found favor at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
In his sole space speech, President Barack Obama vowed we would land on an asteroid by 2025.
There's a cooler reception in the budget-wrangling Congress.
Developing the technologies needed to bring home an asteroid will greatly boost costs, warned Stanford's Hubbard.
The $105 million is just a down payment on a project that could cost billions of dollars.
"I would caution the developers to be very clear-minded and open-eyed about what the ultimate cost... might be," he said.
In the summer, Ames and other NASA research centers will gather their scientists to work out the details.
At Ames, "we can provide tools that make the mission more successful," Korsmeyer said.
For instance, he said, Ames scientists could devise tools similar to their CheMin device aboard the Mars rover that analyzes the composition of Martian rocks.
Am could also build sensors to help find an asteroid.
Most asteroids live too far away to be useful when they're not crashing into, for example, Russia.
And some are huge, like the one near the mouth of the Miami River.
But petite ones — say, the size of a dump truck — might be practical to grab using unmanned spaceships, NASA says.
A are the rubble left from the formation of our solar system about 4.6 billion years ago. They hold clues about our origins and, perhaps, valuable metals.
Although the main goal is not to protect the Earth from an errant space rock, the technology developed "could prove useful in diverting a larger, rogue asteroid," said planetary scientist and former astronaut Tom Jones. He is an adviser to the asteroid-seeking B612 Foundation.
The hunt won't be easy: The perfect asteroid will be tough to find because it will be too small to reflect light.
Besides, it doesn't want to be captured.
NASA calls it "an uncooperative object."
It will be moving at 17,000 mph, happy in its own orbit, and spinning like a top.
It may not even be solid, like granite, but just a tumbling bunch of rocky ice.
Then there's the challenge of catching it.
Korsmeyer calls it complicated "math game."
Picture trying to catch a baseball while on a Ferris wheel.
Once captured, it would be slowly pushed or pulled, and nudged close to the moon.
There, remote-controlled ships would arrive to chip off chunks for study.
Eventually, astronauts would visit it.
"It's not a trivial undertaking," Korsmeyer said.
"You are lining up a whole set of moving balls to try to put one in the pocket."
On June 28, 2009, the world-famous physicist Stephen Hawking threw a party at the University of Cambridge, complete with balloons, hors d'oeuvres and iced champagne.
Everyone was invited but no one showed up.
Hawking had expected as much, because he only sent out invitations after his party had concluded.
It was, he said, "a welcome reception for future time travelers," a tongue-in-cheek experiment to reinforce his 1992 conjecture that travel into the past is effectively impossible.
But Hawking may be on the wrong side of history.
Recent experiments offer tentative support for time travel's feasibility—at least from a mathematical perspective.
The study cuts to the core of our understanding of the universe. It would have profound implications for fundamental physics as well as for practical applications such as quantum cryptography and computing.
The source of time travel speculation lies in the fact that our best physical theories seem to contain no prohibitions on traveling backward through time.
The feat should be possible based on Einstein's theory of general relativity, which describes gravity as the warping of spacetime by energy and matter.
An extremely powerful gravitational field, such as that produced by a spinning black hole, could in principle profoundly warp the fabric of existence so that spacetime bends back on itself.
This would create a "closed timelike curve," or CTC, a loop that could be traversed to travel back in time.
Hawking and many other physicists find CTCs abhorrent, because any macroscopic object traveling through one would inevitably create paradoxes where cause and effect break down.
In a model proposed by the theorist David Deutsch in 1991, however, the paradoxes created by CTCs could be avoided at the quantum scale because of the behavior of fundamental particles, which follow only the fuzzy rules of probability rather than strict determinism.
"It's intriguing that you've got general relativity predicting these paradoxes, but then you consider them in quantum mechanical terms and the paradoxes go away," says University of Queensland physicist Tim Ralph.
"It makes you wonder whether this is important in terms of formulating a theory that unifies general relativity with quantum mechanics."
Recently Ralph and his PhD student Martin Ringbauer led a team that experimentally simulated Deutsch's model of CTCs for the very first time. The results confirmed many aspects of the two-decades-old theory.
Their findings are published in Nature Communications.
Much of their simulation revolved around investigating how Deutsch's model deals with the "grandfather paradox," a hypothetical scenario in which someone uses a CTC to travel back through time to murder her own grandfather, thus preventing her own later birth.
Deutsch's solution to the grandfather paradox works something like this:
Instead of a human being traversing a CTC to kill her ancestor, imagine that a fundamental particle goes back in time to flip a switch on the particle-generating machine that created it.
If the particle flips the switch, the machine emits a particle—the particle—back into the CTC. If the switch isn't flipped, the machine emits nothing.
In this scenario there is no a priori deterministic certainty to the particle's emission, only a distribution of probabilities.
Deutsch's insight was to postulate self-consistency in the quantum realm. He would insist that any particle entering one end of a CTC must emerge at the other end with identical properties.
Therefore, a particle emitted by the machine with a probability of one half would enter the CTC and come out the other end to flip the switch with a probability of one half, imbuing itself at birth with a probability of one half of going back to flip the switch.
If the particle were a person, she would be born with a one-half probability of killing her grandfather, giving her grandfather a one-half probability of escaping death at her hands—good enough in probabilistic terms to close the causative loop and escape the paradox.
Strange though it may be, this solution is in keeping with the known laws of quantum mechanics.
In their new simulation, Ralph, Ringbauer and their coworkers studied Deutsch's model using interactions between pairs of polarized photons within a quantum system. They argue that the interactions are equivalent to a single photon traversing a CTC.
"We encode their polarization so that the second one acts as kind of a past incarnation of the first," Ringbauer says.
So instead of sending a person through a time loop, they created a stunt double of the person and ran him through a time-loop simulator to see if the doppelganger emerging from a CTC exactly resembled the original person as he was in that moment in the past.
By measuring the polarization states of the second photon after its interaction with the first, across multiple trials the team successfully demonstrated Deutsch's self-consistency in action.
"Of course, we're not really sending anything back in time but [the simulation] allows us to study weird evolutions normally not allowed in quantum mechanics."
Those "weird evolutions" enabled by a CTC, Ringbauer notes, would have remarkable practical applications, such as breaking quantum-based cryptography through the cloning of the quantum states of fundamental particles.
"If you can clone quantum states," he says, "you can violate the Heisenberg uncertainty principle," which comes in handy in quantum cryptography because the principle forbids simultaneously accurate measurements of certain kinds of paired variables, such as position and momentum.
"But if you clone that system, you can measure one quantity in the first and the other quantity in the second, allowing you to decrypt an encoded message."
"In the presence of CTCs, quantum mechanics allows one to perform very powerful information-processing tasks, much more than we believe classical or even normal quantum computers could do," says Todd Brun, a physicist at the University of Southern California who was not involved with the team's experiment.
But this experiment cannot test the Deutsch model itself; that could only be done with access to an actual CTC."
Deutsch's model isn't the only one around, however.
In 2009 Seth Lloyd, a theorist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, proposed an alternative, less radical model of CTCs. He proposed that resolves the grandfather paradox using quantum teleportation and a technique called post-selection, rather than Deutsch's quantum self-consistency.
With Canadian collaborators, Lloyd went on to perform successful laboratory simulations of his model in 2011.
"Deutsch's theory has a weird effect of destroying correlations," Lloyd says.
"That is, a time traveler who emerges from a Deutschian CTC enters a universe that has nothing to do with the one she exited in the future.
By contrast, post-selected CTCs preserve correlations, so that the time traveler returns to the same universe that she remembers in the past."
This property of Lloyd's model would make CTCs much less powerful for information processing, although still far superior to what computers could achieve in typical regions of spacetime.
"The classes of problems our CTCs could help solve are roughly equivalent to finding needles in haystacks," Lloyd says.
"But a computer in a Deutschian CTC could solve why haystacks exist in the first place."
L, though, readily admits the speculative nature of CTCs.
"I have no idea which model is really right.
Probably both of them are wrong," he says.
Of course, he adds, the other possibility is that Hawking is correct, "that CTCs simply don't and cannot exist."
Time-travel party planners should save the champagne for themselves—their hoped-for future guests seem unlikely to arrive.
If finned swimming animals evolved in an ocean on an alien world, what would they look like?
Quite possibly a lot like the ones on Earth, a team of researchers says.
A new study that examined certain swimming species' motion in the ocean found a surprising and elegant ratio in the way they move.
This ratio could help engineers build better swimming robots. It reveals a surprising case of convergent evolution over a diverse array of unrelated animals.
Previous work has found that there are striking similarities in the way that animals move through fluids (whether water or air).
It's part of a trend toward understanding the detailed physics of how animals move — perhaps with the intent to use these rules of movement to design more agile robots, said Jack Costello, a marine biologist at Providence College in Rhode Island who was not involved in the paper.
"I do think it's part of a growing wave of understanding biological motion.
For many years people have been satisfied with generalities about thrust production," said Costello, who has researched shared patterns of movement across swimming and flying species.
A team of researchers at Northwestern University first began to wonder about common rules of movement after studying the black ghost knifefish.
The black ghost knifefish lives in freshwater streams in South America. It moves around primarily using an undulating fin attached to its underside.
This is unlike more well-known fish like trout or salmon, which sweep a tail (and the rear portion of their bodies) back and forth.
Instead, the knifefish causes a wave to undulate down its thin fin, which runs most of the length of its body.
There's a whole host of sea critters who move like this, called fin swimmers. Some have a single fin running along the length of their bodies, while others have a pair, one on each side.
Sometimes it makes them look like they're wearing a fluttering tutu.
During their previous work on the ghost black knifefish, the scientists noticed that the fish's maximum speed occurred when a total of two waves of motion could fit across the length of its fin. They wondered whether there might be a common rule across different species.
The scientists studied 22 very different species of finned swimmers. They used video recordings, lab studies and computer modeling to determine what pattern, if any, might exist.
They even trimmed the fin on a fin-swimming robot to see whether that made any difference.
They found that there was indeed a pattern in their motion — though it wasn't quite what they expected.
As it moved, each animal seemed to follow a specific pattern: the ratio between the length of each undulating wavelength and the amplitude (or height) of each wavelength was about 20 to 1.
That is, every full back-and-forth wiggle of the fish's fin was 20 times as long as the wiggle was wide.
For each species they studied, including skates, rays, the black ghost knifefish, the cuttlefish and the Persian carpet flatworm, that ratio remained 20 to 1.
"We found in every animal for which data are available, our prediction was correct," said Neelesh Patankar, a mechanical engineer at Northwestern and one of the lead authors on the work.
The researchers think that this pattern of movement has independently arisen at least eight times, because it's the pattern that maximizes the swimmer's ability to move efficiently with speed.
There could be a thousand more finned-swimming species that have the same ratio, the authors said.
"Physics puts constraints on the kinds of solutions nature can have and survive," Patankar said.
And if complex alien life were ever to be found on another planet using a fin to swim, this same ratio would probably emerge, said Patankar's co-lead author, Malcolm MacIver, a bio-engineer at Northwestern University.
"There's only a certain number of ways in which animals can move effectively," MacIver pointed out.
If those alien animals were moving through liquid water on another planet, then the same fluid constraints apply.
"Water's water," he said.
The findings could help scientists learn how to better build underwater robots that swim quickly and efficiently, the researchers added.
Such skills are critical, for example, when sending underwater vehicles to deal with oil spills — and they can't yet swim with the level of precision that these animals can.
"There's a real need for underwater robots that can move with more agility," MacIver said.
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama authorized U.S. airstrikes in northern Iraq Thursday night. He said the airstrikes would be launched if needed to defend Americans from advancing Islamic militants and protect civilians under siege.
In a televised late-night statement from the White House, Obama said American military planes already had carried out airdrops of humanitarian aid to tens of thousands of Iraqi religious minorities surrounded by militants and desperately in need of food and water.
"Today America is coming to help," he declared.
His announcement threatened a renewal of U.S. military involvement in the country's long sectarian war.
The announcements reflected the deepest American engagement in Iraq since U.S. troops withdrew in late 2011 after nearly a decade of war.
Obama, who made his remarks in a steady and somber tone, has staked much of his legacy as president on ending what he has called the "dumb war" in Iraq.
The food and water supplies were delivered to the tens of thousands of Yazidis trapped on a mountain without food and water.
The Yazidis, who follow an ancient religion with ties to Zoroastrianism, fled their homes after the Islamic State group issued an ultimatum to convert to Islam, pay a religious fine, flee their homes or face death.
Obama said the humanitarian airdrops were made at the request of the Iraqi government.
Mindful of the public's aversion to another lengthy war, Obama acknowledged that the prospect of a new round of U.S. military action would be a cause for concern among many Americans.
He vowed anew not to put American combat troops back on the ground in Iraq and said there was no U.S. military solution to the crisis.
"As commander in chief, I will not allow the United States to be dragged into fighting another war in Iraq," Obama said.
Even so, he outlined a rationale for airstrikes if the Islamic State militants advance on American troops in the northern city of Irbil and the U.S. Consulate there in the Kurdish region of Iraq.
The troops were sent to Iraq earlier this year as part of the White House response to the extremist group's swift movement across the border with Syria and into Iraq.
"When the lives of American citizens are at risk, we will take action," Obama said.
"That's my responsibility as commander in chief."
He said he had also authorized the use of targeted military strikes if necessary to help the Iraqi security forces protect civilians.
The Defense Department said the airdrops were performed by one C-17 and two C-130 cargo aircraft. They together delivered a total of 72 bundles of food and water.
They were escorted by two F/A-18 fighters from an undisclosed air base in the region.
The planes delivered 5,300 gallons of fresh drinking water and 8,000 pre-packaged meals. They were over the drop area for less than 15 minutes at a low altitude.
The president cast the mission to assist the Yazidis as part of the American mandate to assist around the world when the U.S. has the unique capabilities to help avert a massacre.
Officials said the United States was prepared to undertake additional humanitarian airdrops if necessary. They did not say how quickly those missions could occur.
Administration officials said they believe unilateral U.S. strikes would be consistent with international law in part because the Iraqi government has asked for Washington to take military action.
They also said Obama had the constitutional authority to act on his own in order to protect American citizens.
He similarly authorized strikes in Syria last summer after chemical weapons were deployed. But those attacks were never carried out, in part because of domestic political concerns and because of an international agreement to strip Syria of its stockpiles of the deadly gases.
The president has also faced persistent calls to take military action in Syria on humanitarian grounds, given that more than 170,000 people have been killed there.
Critics, including some Republicans in Congress, have argued that Obama's cautious approach to Syria has allowed the Islamic State group to grow strong enough to move across the border with Iraq and make swift gains.
Republican Senators John McCain of Arizona and Lindsey Graham of South Carolina praised Obama's proposed actions Thursday night, but said much more will be necessary.
"This should include the provision of military and other assistance to our Kurdish, Iraqi, and Syrian partners" who are fighting the militants, airstrikes against the militants' leaders and forces and support for Sunni Iraqis who seek to resist the extremists, they said in a statement.
In light of the militants' advances, Obama dispatched about 800 U.S. forces to Iraq earlier this year. Those troops largely split between joint operation centers in Baghdad and Irbil.
More than half are providing security for the embassy and U.S. personnel.
Officials said there were no plans to evacuate those Americans from Iraq but that the United States was conducting enhanced intelligence flights over Irbil with both manned and unmanned aircraft to monitor the deteriorating conditions.
If the president were to order actual airstrikes in Iraq, it's all but certain he would proceed without formal congressional approval.
Lawmakers left town last week for a five-week recess. There was no sign that Congress was being called back.
However, officials said the White House was in contact throughout Thursday with some lawmakers, including House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky.
Some Republicans have expressly called for the president to take action and have said he doesn't need the approval of lawmakers.
B
The showdown took place at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility, a maximum-security prison. There, convicts can take courses taught by faculty from nearby Bard College, and where inmates have formed a popular debate club.
Last month, they invited the Ivy League undergraduates and this year's national debate champions over for a friendly competition.
The Harvard debate team also was crowned world champions in 2014.
But the inmates are building a reputation of their own.
In the two years since they started a debate club, the prisoners have beaten teams from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the University of Vermont.
The competition with West Point, which is now an annual affair, has grown into a rivalry.
At Bard, those who help teach the inmates aren't particularly surprised by their success.
"Students in the prison are held to the exact same standards, levels of rigor and expectation as students on Bard's main campus," said Max Kenner, who runs the Bard Prison Initiative. The program operates in six New York prisons.
"Those students are serious.
Against Harvard, the inmates were tasked with defending a position they opposed: They had to argue that public schools should be allowed to turn away students whose parents entered the United States illegally.
The inmates brought up arguments that the Harvard team hadn't considered.
Three students from Harvard's team responded, and a panel of neutral judges declared the inmates victorious.
"The fact that we won is nice, but it isn't the most important thing," said Kenner, adding that the club is meant to help students articulate what they've learned.
Students on the Harvard team weren't immediately available for comment, but shortly after the loss, they posted a comment on a team Facebook page.
"There are few teams we are prouder of having lost a debate to than the phenomenally intelligent and articulate team we faced this weekend," they wrote.
"And we are incredibly thankful to Bard and the Eastern New York Correctional Facility for the work they do and for organizing this event."
Inmates can earn various degrees through the initiative, which is taught primarily by Bard faculty.
About 15 percent of the all-male inmates at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility in Napanoch are enrolled.
Graduates of the program have continued their studies at Yale and Columbia universities, Kenner said.
While in prison, they learn without the help of the Internet, relying instead on resources provided by the college.
"They make the most of every opportunity they have," Kenner said.
M
"If they're going to strike, let them strike once and for all and bring the regime down," grumbled Um Hafiz, who fled with her husband and five children from their village near Syria's southern city of Daara in January.
Other residents said Sunday that they worried that Obama's decision to first seek congressional authorization for a U.S. military operation would so embolden Syrian President Bashar Assad that he might even dare to attack Zaatari, a major recruiting ground for rebel fighters about five miles inside Jordan.
"We were happy when we first heard that the U.S. would attack, but then when it was postponed, we were afraid that Bashar would attack the camp," said Raad Zoubi, 23, who has lived in the dusty, sun-stricken swath of tents and prefabricated metal huts for the past year.
"People are angry, but when the Americans do attack, we will be happy they do."
Expectations ran high in Zaatari late last week as the United States signaled that cruise-missile strikes were imminent. The United States said that it had determined "with high confidence" that the Assad regime was behind an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack on a rebel-held Damascus suburb that killed at least 1,429 civilians.
Camp residents heard Obama reveal his decision to postpone the operation on live broadcasts of his announcement Saturday, carried by Arabic-language television channels received over the satellite dishes that sprout like mushrooms atop the dwellings lining Zaatari's trash-strewn streets.
"Everybody was watching," said Zoubi, 23, a baker from Taybeh, a village outside Daara, where the anti-Assad protests that led to the brutal civil war erupted on March 18, 2011.
Coming from a country that the Assad family has ruled for four decades, it's doubtful that most of the camp's more than 120,000 residents understood Obama's decision to seek congressional approval in the face of opposition by a majority of Americans to U.S. intervention.
Fadil Issa, 35, has been in Zaatari since leaving his village near Daara eight months ago. He said many refugees think Obama called off the U.S. strikes for fear they could have triggered hostilities between the United States and Iran, one of Assad's main allies.
"People are unhappy by this postponement.
They don't understand why he's afraid of Iran," he said.
As refugees tried to make sense of Obama's decision, life continued uninterrupted in Zaatari.
including the nightly return to Syria by refugees so tired of the camp's heat, filth, tedium and crime that they willingly brave the risky border crossing to return to old homes or seek new ones.
"What's the worst that will happen?
We would rather die in our homeland," said Ahmad Mohammad Hussein, 28, an electrician who was arrested by Assad's security forces during the anti-Assad protests in Daara and spent a year in prison.
"We can't take it here anymore."
Hussein waited in the sultry late afternoon heat with scores of other men, women and children for the buses that would leave them at unofficial border crossings maintained by the Jordanian military.
From there, they were to walk to Syrian territory controlled by rebels of the Free Syrian Army, a loose amalgam of rebel groups.
Seats on the buses are limited and it's first come, first served.
So the crowd charged the vehicles as they pulled up in clouds of choking dust, pushing and shoving through the doors, their meager possessions stuffed in cloth bundles and old suitcases.
Jordanian security forces in three armored cars stood by impassively, on guard against serious violence.
The buses were preceded by a truck hauling a trailer with windows cut into its sides and stairs that swung down from the rear.
It appeared to be bringing rebel fighters back into Syria as only men and teenage boys swarmed into the trailer, some pushing their bags through the windows before clambering through, others crushing their way up the stairs into the rear.
"It's unbearable to live here," said Hafiz as she watched the scene, several of her daughters clustered by her side.
"Even with rocket explosions, it's better over there.
"We're not afraid.
Whatever Allah has written for us will happen."
In the prevailing scientific view, they are microscopic remains of ancient pigment granules. They offer clues to the colors of winged dinosaurs.
But a new study by a Drexel University graduate proposes a different explanation — one that has ruffled a few academic feathers.
Alison E. Moyer, now a Ph.D. student at North Carolina State University, says the cigar-shaped "microbodies," just one-millionth of a meter long, might simply be impressions left by very old bacteria.
Their size and shape, among other attributes, do not rule out either interpretation, she says.
"You have these little structures that look very similar, and so we have to be careful," said Moyer, lead author of the paper published this month in the journal Scientific Reports.
The study has prompted a heated social media reaction from one researcher who favors the interpretation that the shapes are melanosomes, or pigment granules.
Others in the field have been more accepting of Moyer's work, acknowledging it as a helpful challenge to established views.
Such give-and-take is perhaps more prevalent in paleontology than in some other fields of science. After all, the only surefire way to answer certain questions about the ancient world would be to travel back in a time machine.
Failing that, Moyer found a living time machine: a chicken.
Paleontologists consider birds to be modern dinosaurs, so Moyer took chicken feathers and grew bacteria on them.
She compared the bacteria with the pigment granules inside the feathers, as well as with the oblong impressions found in fossilized feathers from winged dinosaurs.
The size, shape, and distribution of the fossil impressions suggested bacteria, though it is still possible that they were pigment granules, she said.
Her work was overseen by prominent N.C. State paleontologist Mary H. Schweitzer.
Among her co-authors was Ken Lacovara, associate professor of paleontology and geology at Drexel.
Matthew D. Shawkey, a professor at the University of Akron, said on Twitter that the new research was "bad science."
Shkey, who was involved in a 2012 study that determined the feathers of the winged dinosaur Archaeopteryx were black, had several objections to Moyer's paper.
Chief among them was the juxtaposition of two images — one showing cigar-shaped bacteria on a chicken feather, the other depicting similar-shaped impressions found in a fossil feather from Archaeopteryx.
At a glance, the dark shapes in the two images look about the same size.
Shawkey's beef is that the images are reproduced at different scale (as indicated in the fine print) and that the bacteria on the chicken feathers are actually four times as long as the impressions in the fossils.
"That's not a good way to give confidence in your paper," Shawkey said.
Moyer counters that the bacteria are closer to twice the length of the fossil impressions.
To the untrained eye, the graininess of the image makes it a bit hard to tell who is right.
In any event, the size of the purported melanosomes falls well within the range of the sizes of known bacteria, Moyer said.
Shawkey fired off more than a dozen tweets objecting to the paper. Another scientist who has interpreted the shapes as pigment granules had a more receptive attitude to the work of Moyer and her coworkers.
"It's always good to take one step back," said Johan Lindgren, an associate professor at Lund University in Sweden.
So how did the other scientists conclude anything about the color of dinosaur feathers, if all that remained of the purported pigment granules was their fossilized imprints?
The key was their shape.
By looking at what granule shapes were associated with which colors in modern birds, the scientists concluded that various winged dinosaurs were black, gray or brown.
Or maybe not.
said Moyer, "There's a ton of work that needs to be done
