The Chinook tribes greeted Lewis and Clark when they arrived at the Lower Columbia River in 1805.
The tribes helped members of the expedition during the winter. They brought them food and helped with the navigation of the expedition.
More than 200 years after that first contact, the five tribes that now make up the Chinook Indian Nation have a constitution.
However, they are not recognized by the U.S. government.
"They say we are extinct, but my family still lives on our indigenous land," said Kate Elliott, Councilman Kate Elliott's wife.
The could change under proposed revisions to the 35-year process.
Changes include moving the earliest date from which tribes must give their historical past to the 1930s. They also allow tribes to reapply for federal recognition. This was something that had previously been prohibited. It is now possible to reapply.
Federal
A federally recognized tribe is considered. The federal government says the tribe has a government-to-government relationship with the United States, and the tribe declares the right to create and enforce laws, regulate activities within its jurisdiction and determine membership criteria.
For some Washington tribes, the change could make it easier to get federal recognition.
These tribes recognize, however, that the changes would still mean a long road ahead in achieving the recognition they have been striving for.
"We are content with the proposed changes; however, we know that there is still a long way to go," said Sue Hall. She is a vice chair of the Snohomish Tribe of Indians, which has fought for more than 30 years to gain federal recognition. "We are pleased with the proposed changes."
The received federal recognition in 2001 during the very end of the Clinton administration.
However, both tribes' recognitions were quickly thrown out by then- President George W. Bush's government. It said the Duwamish had had a short-lived lapse in tribal government and did not always live in a cohesive group.
One proposed change, called the "Part 83 process," will require tribes to show community or political influence as of 1934rather than "historical times."
This could be helpful to the Chinooks, since the nation has more documentation from the modern era that goes beyond its oral history.
"You can't expect the tribes whose treaties weren't honored to get paperwork, especially when almost everyone was sent to boarding school," Elliott said. The U.S. government forcibly removed Indian children from their families and placed them in boarding schools in an effort to strip them of their culture.
"How can you tell people you can't do anything Indian, but later, when you go to file, they have to prove from 1851 or 1855."
The new rule forces tribes to relive the more "difficult times in their history," said Michael Willis, an attorney. Hobbs, Straus, Dean & Walker LLP is a Washington, D.C. firm that focuses on legal issues affecting Indian Country.
"But if there is one thing we are, we are stubborn, and that's why we're still here.
We are not going to give up.
Duwamish Tribe Chairwoman Cecile Hansen said the proposed changes do not take away from the tribe's ultimate goal. It is the restoration of the recognition they won and lost in 2001. The tribe is still working to achieve that goal.
"No Indian person in the United States should have to prove who they are," Hansen said.
"I have been doing this for 39 years.
Why should I have to go through another set of rules?"
The BIA will hold hearings for federally recognized tribes and people.
Announced May 22, they are part of an effort the department says will make tribal recognition more.
Professor Mohammed Dajani expected criticism when he took Palestinian students to Poland last month.
He wasn't ready for the uproar that would follow.
In online comments and posts Palestinian critics on Twitter denounced the visit.
People recommended the professor to maintain a low profile, stay away from his college campus and think about taking a vacation overseas.
" People "were claiming that we were giving support to Zionism and spreading its propaganda, as though we were surrendering our rights," Dajani said. He was speaking in East Jerusalem, the Arab side of the city, which Palestinians claim as the capital of a future state.
Dajani is the director of Al Quds University's American studies program. He heads an organization called Wasatia, whose declared aim is to promote a culture of moderation and reconciliation among Palestinians, values that often seem to be in short supply.
He is not a stranger to controversy.
DDajani said the idea of taking students to Auschwitz took shape after he made a journey to the site three years ago on a visit sponsored by The Aladdin Project. The Aladdin Project is a Paris-based organization that promotes understanding between Jews and Muslims.
"In my village you see a great deal of ignorance of the Holocaust, denial of the Holocaust.
People don't want to understand the suffering of the other," Dajani said.
Because of its important role in the creation of a state in Israel. The Holocaust is freighted with political overtones in Palestinian society. Many think their people have paid the price for the persecution of the Jews in Europe. There is no doubt that this is not the case.
Palestin the war that followed the establishment of Israel Palestinians consider their mass displacement and expulsion. More than any other disaster, they recall it in annual commemorations. Jews will mark Holocaust Remembrance Day this year beginning at sundown Sunday.
"The Holocaust is not taught in Palestinian universities and schools," Dajani said.
"It is a history ignored, mentioned as part of a plot to establish a Jewish state in Palestine."
DDajani has publicly advocated Holocaust education. He has devoted part of his own classes to the topic.
The trip to Auschwitz was arranged as part of a reconciliation study initiated by the Friedrich Schiller University into the country. It also included a visit to Deheishe, a Palestinian refugee camp.
"We didn't want to jeopardize the visit, so we kept it very quiet," he said, noting applications were sought by word of mouth. "We didn't want to jeopardize the visit, so we kept it very quiet," he added, noting that there was no prior announcement of the trip, thought to be the first of its kind by Palestinian students.
The program also included a trip to Krakow. There, participants learned about Jewish life before the Holocaust, visiting synagogues and former Jewish neighborhoods.
In Auschwitz, the group heard from two Holocaust survivors and a Polish guide.
"I visited the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago, but here it was different," said Salim Sweidan, a student at Al Quds who attended the trip.
"When you happen to step on the ground where millions were killed, it leaves a big impression on the world."
" People accuse us of showing sympathy for the occupier. But I say no, it was sympathy for the people who were killed there," he added.
Nasser al-Qadi, a master's degree candidate at Al Quds, said he'd joined the trip. It was "our humanitarian duty," he said."
"We went there for education, and we believe that there are no limits on education," al Qadi said.
He said Israelis should recognize the Palestinian trauma of expulsion and displacement.
Abdullah Dweikat wrote on the Palestinian news website Watan: "We reject the extermination of any human being because of his religion, nationality or political views. We also reject the wounds and pain of our people.
Sweidan said that many people privately expressed support to participants, calling their visit a brave step.
Dajani, a scion of a famous Palestinian family from Jerusalem, was active in the Palestinian Fatah movement in Lebanon in the 1960s and '70s. He studied later in the United States and returned to his native city in 1993 to take care of his father.
He said the treatment of his father and other Arab patients at an Israeli hospital was a turning point in his attitude toward Israelis.
"The conflict with Israel has poisoned the whole attitude toward" the Holocaust, Dajani said. He added that Palestinians perceive acknowledging the event as "undermining the national narrative." The Palestinians are not willing to accept the truth about the Holocaust, he said.
"I decided to do it because it was the right thing to do," he said.
"I am planning to do it again."
KANSAS City, Mo. - Three weeks ago, if you ordered a five- egg omelet from Roxanne's Cafe in the Parkville suburb of Kansas City, you would probably get a three- egg omelet.
Today, Roxanne's is more strict.
A three- egg omelet is made up of three eggs.
No more, no less, no more, no less.
"I have a family member who I can't control his egging.
He's not allowed to cook eggs right now for the time being.
This is because egg prices for Roxanne's Cafe have gone up tremendously in the past month.
On May 5, Gray paid $17.55 per 15 dozen eggs.
Last week, she paid $42.85.
Roxanne's Cafe is not the only one.
Some supermarkets have seen prices of a dozen eggs go from $3 to 99 cents in the past few weeks.
Cafes, restaurants and bakeries around the nation are feeling the pain of bird flu outbreaks that have spread in the Midwest.
"This is the most devastating foreign animal disease that has happened in the U.S. for any species," said Jo Manhart, executive director of the Missouri Egg Council. It is the most devastating foreign animal disease that has happened in the U.S. for any species," said Jo Manhart.
Farmers have lost 47 million hens and turkeys since the virus started to spread a few months ago.
Iowa, the country's top egg producer, has been hit the hardest.
There are more than 30 million hens in Iowa.
In Kansas, only 10 birds have been hit by the virus in a backyard flock.
Despite the relatively small outbreak, last week the Kansas Department of Agriculture banned. There were some exemptions from the ban. chickens, turkeys and other live birds were banned from appearing in state and county fairs in 2015 for fear of spreading the virus. It was not immediately clear if this would be the case again.
The outbreak has cut egg production.
Last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture released a report that said that domestic production will drop to 95.9 billion pounds this year.
The has struck at a time when eggs were enjoying relative popularity. The U.S. produced nearly 100 billion eggs last year.
Consumers have become more and more concerned about protein-rich diets. Last year each person ate 263 eggs on average, a 30-year high for the number of eggs consumed in a person's lifetime.
"Before this outbreak, eggs were on a roll," said Kevin Burkum, the promoted. Kevin Burkum, American Egg Board assistant director of marketing.
R Roxanne's, probably like many cafes, is trying to make up for the high egg costs.
Along with portion management in her egg-heavy meals, the owner Gray changed the daily specials to include things that do not contain eggs, including goulash.
Gray winced at the thought of the last resort, a desperate measure.
The wholesale price of a dozen eggs was 63 cents before the outbreak.
That has nearly quadrupled to $2.35, according to Brian Moscobiuri. He is working as a market journalist for Urner Barry, a trade publication for the food industry in the state of Illinois.
Besides bakeries and restaurants, supermarkets are also dealing with the effects of the virus.
Some of these egg products include the usual suspects. For example, ice cream and bakery items are made with egg products. Other products such as mayonnaise, marshmallow cream, makeup and shampoo are made with egg products as well.
Hen House said that it has had to pass some of that on to consumer. It said that its cost has gone up about 40 percent in the last couple of weeks.
It is not clear how the virus was transmitted from wild birds, which are carriers of the H5N2 disease, to poultry loaded.
The virus is said to be spread through physical contact such as bird droppings.
Honguyu Xin, the Egg Industry Center's leader at Iowa State University, hypothesizes that the virus can also travel through the air and seep into cracks of hatcheries and barns.
Heat kills the virus, and outbreaks are expected to slow down in the course of the summer.
Xin hopes that by the time the summer gives way to autumn and wild birds migrate down through the Midwestern states. That will allow more research to be done to prevent further outbreaks.
There are, however, no guarantees.
Cook weren't too concerned about how many eggs they scooped into the frying pan and owner Roxanne Gray.
SAN JOSE, Calif. - Preparing to rearrange the heavens, scientists are busy figuring out how to pluck, push and park a spinning asteroid between this planet and the moon.
While most of us hope to avoid space rocks, NASA has an ambitious plan. It is going to make a spaceship to drag one closer to Earth for a $ 105 million price tag.
It is the Space Age equivalent of bringing the mountain to Muhammad. It's the first step in our future journey to Mars.
"Our goal is to go out there and rendezvous and then get it into the hands of people who can understand it," said David Kors Meyer, manager ofNASA Ames Research Center's Engineering Directorate at Mountain View, Calif.'s NASA Ames Research Center, which will contribute to the project.
Asteroids command our respect as a result of a big one can play us like a billiard ball.
February's twofer - a small one rocked Russia and a larger one was a near miss - only added to the worry.
But they're also useful, and following one could launch us into deeper space.
This is because we will need a car much better than a fuel-driven rocket.
With new NASA funding, engineers aim to design a solar electric aerospace. It would make a slow, steady and sustainable trip to find an asteroid.
It is the journey, not just the destination, that fascinates scientists.
After finding a suitable space rock orbiting our way, the spaceship might tug, pressure or harpoon.
Or it could stuff the rock into a big bag, or maybe lasso it in some 21st century version of a Roy Rogers rope trick. It would be a great way to get rid of the rock from the ground.
"As a space-faring country it has been more than 40 years since we have been to deep space," out where asteroids lurking in the deepest of the celestial traps, said G. Scott Hubbard, a NASA Ames, who conceived the Mars Pathfinder mission and formerly directed NASA Ames.
"We need to come back to our "chops," " he said.
"It's a development of space exploration."
The "Asteroid Retrieval Mission" is still being constructed in Washington, D.C. It is a major new goal for an agency that has retired the shuttle fleet and grounded a moon-landing plan. It's a major new goal for an agency that has retired the shuttle fleet.
Suggested last year by the Keck Institute for Space Studies. The idea has found favor at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
President Barack Obama vowed in his only space speech that we would land on an asteroid by 2025.
There is a cooler reception in the Congress.
Developing the know-how needed to bring home an asteroid will greatly raise prices, warned Stanford's Hubbard.
The $ 105 million is just a down payment on a project that could cost billions. The project is expected to be completed in the near future.
In the summer, Ames and other NASA science centers will gather their scientists to iron out the details.
At Ames, "we can supply tools that make the mission more successful," Korsmeyer said.
For example, he said, Ames scientists could come up with tools such as their CheMin device aboard the Mars rover that tests Martian rocks for the composition.
Ames can also build sensors to help find an asteroid.
Most asteroids live too far away to be helpful when they're not crashing into Russia.
Some are huge, and some are very large.
But small ones - say, the size of a dump truck - could be practical to grab using unmanned spacecrafts, NASA says. It is not yet clear if this is the case for unmanned spaceships, it says.
Asteroids are the rubble left from the formation of our solar system about 4.6 billion years ago. They hold clues about our origins and, maybe, precious metals.
Although the main goal is not to protect the Earth from an errant space rock, "could prove useful in diverting a larger, rogue asteroid," said Tom Jones. He is an adviser to the asteroid-seeking B612 Foundation. "The technology developed " could prove useful in diverting a larger, rogue asteroid," said planetary scientist and former astronaut.
The hunt will not be easy: The perfect asteroid will be difficult to find because it will be too small to reflect light. It will be difficult to find the perfect asteroid because it will be too small to reflect light.
It doesn't want to be captured.
NASA called it an "uncooperative object."
It will be moving at 17,000 mph, spinning like a top and happy in its own orbit.
It may not even be solid, like granite, but a tumbling bunch of ice.
Then there's the problem of catching it.
Kors Meyer calls it a "math game."
Think of trying to catch a ball on a Ferris wheel.
Once captured, it would be slowly pulled or pushed close to the moon.
There, remote-controlled ships would come to chip off chunks for study.
Astronomers would eventually go to it.
"It's not a very small problem," Kors Meyer said.
"You are lining up a whole set of moving balls to try to put one in the pocket." The ball is going to go into the pocket.
On June 28, 2009, Stephen Hawking threw a party at the University of Cambridge. The party was full of balloons, hors d'oeuvres, iced champagne and hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' hors d' horseradish.
Everyone was invited but no one showed up.
Hawking had anticipated as much, because he only sent invitations after his party had ended.
It was, he said, "a welcome reception for future time travelers," a tongue-in-cheek experiment to boost his 1992 guess.
Hawking, however, may be on the wrong side of history.
Recent
The study goes to the heart of our understanding of the universe. The resolution of the possibility of time travel, far from being a matter worthy only of science fiction, would have deep consequences for basic physics including for practical applications like quantum cryptography and computing.
The cause of time travel guesswork is the truth that our best physical ideas appear to contain no rules on traveling back through time.
The feat should be possible based on the recent discovery. Einstein's theory of general relativity describes gravity as the warping of spacetime by matter and energy.
An extremely powerful gravitational field like that caused by a black hole spinning could warp the fabric of our lives. It would instantly bend spacetime back on its own self.
This would create a "closed timelike curve," or CTC, which can be passed through to go back in time.
Hawking and many other physicists find CTCs appalling, as a result of any macroscopic object moving through one would inevitably create paradoxes where cause and effect break down.
In a model proposed by David Deutsch in 1991. in the form of a CTC model, paradoxes created by CTCs could be avoided at the quantum scale because of performance of fundamental particles. They follow only fuzzy rules of probability rather than strict determinism.
Recently Ralph and his PhD student Martin Ringbauer led a team that built the first experimentally simulated model of CTCs. They tested and confirmed many parts of the two-decades-old theory.
Much of their simulation revolved around studying how Deutsch's model sorts out the "grandfather paradox," a hypothetical situation in which somebody makes use of a CTC to go back through time to kill her own grandfather, so preventing her own later birth.
Deutsch's solution to the grandfather paradox works like this.
Instead of a human being going through a CTC to kill her ancestors, imagine that a basic particle goes back in time to turn a switch on the machine that created it.
If the switch is flipped, the machine emits a particle. If the switch is not flipped, the machine emits nothing.
There is no a priori deterministic certainty of the particle's emission and only a distribution of probabilities.
Deutsch's idea was to postulate self-consistency in the quantum world. He insisted that any particle entering one end of a CTC must come out at the other end with the same properties.
Therefore, a particle. enter the CTC with a probability of one half and come out the other end with a probability of one half. imbuing itself.
If the particle were a person, it would be born with a one-half chance of killing her grandfather. This would give her grandfather a one-half chance of escaping death at her hands. This is good enough in probabilistic terms to escape the paradox.
Strange though this may be, it is in accordance with the laws of quantum mechanics.
In their model-based new simulation Ralph, Ringbauer and their comrades studied Deutsch's model using interactions between pairs of polarized photons in a quantum system that they argue is mathematically equivalent to a single photon crossing a CTC.
"We encoded their polarization so that the second one acts like a past incarnation of the first," Ringbauer said.
So instead of sending a person through a time loop, they created a stunt double. If the doppelganger emerged from a CTC exactly resembled the original person as he was.
"Of course, we're not really sending anything back in time, but [the simulation] lets us study weird evolutions normally not allowed in the quantum mechanics realm.
Those "weird evolutions" enabled by a CTC, Ringbauer says, would have great practical uses for example cracking quantum-based cryptography by cloning the quantum states of fundamental particles.
"In the presence of CTCs, "quantum mechanics allows one to perform very powerful information-processing tasks." Todd Brun is a physicist at the University of Southern California who was not involved with the team's experiment. "We believe classical or even normal quantum computers could do this," he says.
But this experiment cannot test the Deutsch model. It can only be done with access to a real CTC."
Deutsch's model is not the only one.
In 2009 Seth Lloyd, the associate director of mathematics at Massachusetts. Tech, proposed an alternative, less radical model of CTCs that resolves the grandfather paradox using quantum teleport and a technique called post-selection, rather than Deutsch's quantum self-consistency.
Together with Canadian scientists, Lloyd went on to run successful laboratorysimulation operations.
"That is, a time traveler who emerges from a Deutschian CTC enters a universe. This universe has nothing to do with the one she exited in the future. The universe she enters into has nothing to do with the one she exited in the future.
Post-selected CTCs, on the other hand, preserve correlation that holds the time traveler back to the same universe. It is only the universe in which she remembers in the past."
This property of Lloyd's model would make CTCs much less powerful for information getting around, but still much better than what computers can do in common regions of space.
"The classes of problems our CTCs could help solve are roughly equivalent to finding needles in haystacks," Lloyd explains. There are various types of problems that can be solved by the CTCs, he says.
"But a computer in a Deutschian CTC could solve why haystacks are present in the first place. "
Loyd readily acknowledges the speculative nature of.
"I don't know which model is actually right.
Maybe both of them are wrong," he said.
The other possibility, he says, is that Hawking is right. He adds, "that CTCs simply don't and can't exist."
Time-travel party organizers need to save the champagne for themselves. Their hoped-for future guests seem unlikely to arrive.
If finned swimming animals evolved in an alien world, what would they look like?
Very much like the ones on Earth, a group of researchers says.
A new study that examined certain swimming species' motion in the ocean found a surprising and elegant.
This ratio, described in PLOS Biology, shows a strange case of convergent evolution. It could help engineers build better swimming robots over a different variety of animals.
There are striking similarities in the way animals move through fluids, be it water or air.
A group of scientists at Northwestern University first started to wonder about common rules of movement after studying the black ghost fish.
The black ghost knifefish lives in freshwater streams in South America. It mainly moves around with an undulating fin attached to the underside.
This is unlike more well-known fish like salmon or trout, which sweep their tails back and forth.
Instead, the knifefish produces a wave to drift down its thin fin. It runs most of the length of its body. The knifefish is also known as a "shallow fin fish," or a "shallow fin fish."
There are a whole host of sea critters that move like this. Some have a single fin running along the length of their bodies, while others have a pair.
DuringDuring their previous work on the ghost black knifefish, they noticed that the fish's maximum speed happened when a total of two waves of motion.
The scientists studied 22 different species of finned swimmers, using lab studies, video recordings and computer modeling. If any pattern existed, it would have been found.
They even trimmed the fin on a fin-swimming robot. It looks something like a torpedo with a ribbon strung underneath it, and they wanted to see if it would make a difference.
They found that there was a pattern in their movement, even if it was not what they had expected.
Each animal seemed to follow a particular pattern. The ratio between the length of each undulating wavelength and the height (or amplitude) of each was about 20 to 1.
Every full back-and- forth wiggle of the fish's fin was 20 times as long. The width of the wiggle was also 20 times that of the wide wiggle.
For each species studied, including rays, skates, cuttlefish, the black ghost knifefish and the Persian carpet flatworm. This is a 20 to 1 ratio for each species of cuttlefish. The ratio remained 20 to 1 for all species of cuttlefish. It is still 20 to 1 for the black ghost knifefish. people are not interested in skates, ray, and cuttlefish. very interested in cuttlefish. that ratio remained 20 to 1.
The researchers think that this movement has happened at least eight times. This pattern promotes the swimmer's ability to move efficiently with speed.
There may be a thousand more finned-swimming species that have the same ratio.
If complex alien life were ever to be found on another planet using a fin to swim, this same ratio would probably emerge. Patankar's co-lead author is Malcolm MacIver. He is a bioengineer at Northwestern. The results of the study are expected to be published in the next issue of the Journal of the American Medical Association.
"There's only a select number of ways animals can move effectively," MacIver pointed out. The difference between animals and humans is that they can't move effectively.
If those alien animals were moving through liquid water on another planet, then the same fluid restrictions.
"Water is water," he said.
The findings can help scientists better build underwater robots that can swim quickly and effectively, the scientists said.
These skills are critical, for example, when sending underwater vehicles to deal with oil spills. These animals cannot yet swim with the level of precision that they can. These animals can't yet swim with the level of precision that these animals can.
Washington: President Barack Obama authorized U.S. airstrikes on northern Iraq Thursday night, warning they would be launched if needed to protect Americans from advancing Islamic militants and civilians under siege. It was not immediately clear whether the strikes would be carried out as planned.
In a televised late-night statement, Obama said their jets had already carried out airdrops, with tens of thousands of Iraqi religious minorities surrounded by militants.
"Today America is coming to help," he said.
The government's decision is the biggest American intervention in Iraq since U.S. troops withdrew in late 2011 after nearly a decade of battle.
Obama has staked much of his legacy as president on ending what he has called the."
The food and water were delivered to tens of thousands of Yazidis trapped on a mountain. They were left without food and water for the duration of the siege.
The Yazidis, who follow an ancient religion with ties to Iran, fled their homes. They were forced to convert to Islam, pay a religious fine, flee their homes or face death.
Obama said the airdrops were carried out at the request of the Iraqi government.
Mindful of the public's aversion to another long war. Obama was careful to say that the prospect of a new round of U.S. military action would be a cause of concern among many Americans. It would be a cause of great anxiety for many people in the country, he said.
He vowed not to put American combat troops back on the ground in Iraq and said there was no military solution.
However, he outlined a rationale for military strikes. If the Islamic State militants advance on American troops in the northern city of Irbil.
"When you will make action to protect the lives of American citizens, we will take action," Obama said.
"It is my duty as commander in chief."
He said he had also ordered targeted military strikes to help Iraqi security forces protect civilians.
The Pentagon said airdrops were carried out by one C-17 and two C-130 cargo planes that together delivered 72 bundles.
The planes delivered 8,000 pre-packaged meals and 5,300 gallons of fresh drinking water. They were over the drop area for less than 15 minutes at a low altitude.
The. The president cast the mission to assist the Yazidis as part of the American mandate to help around the world when the U.S. has the unique capabilities to help avert a massacre. The U.S. has the unique capabilities to help avert a massacre. The mission to assist the Yazidis as part of the American mandate to help around the world.
Officials said the United States was ready to carry out more humanitarian airdrops if needed, but did not say how quickly.
Officials said they believe unilateral U.S. strikes would be in line with international law, in part because the Iraqi government has called on Washington to take military action. There was no immediate comment from the White House.
They also said Obama had the constitutional right to take action on his own in order to protect the rights of American people.
Obama dispatched about 800 U.S. forces to Iraq earlier this year, with those troops split between joint operation centers in Irbil and Baghdad.
More than half are providing security for the embassy and U.S. embassies.
Officials said there were no plans to evacuate those Americans from Iraq but that the United States was conducting enhanced intelligence flights.
If the president were to order real airstrikes in Iraq, it is all but sure he would go ahead without official congressional permission.
Lawmakers left town last week for a five-week recess. There was no indication that they would return.
Officials said the White House was in contact throughout Thursday with some lawmakers. They included Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky, and House Speaker John Pelosi, R-Ohio.
Some Republicans have called on the president to take action and have said it does not need the approval of the people who voted for him.
BOSTON. months after winning a national championship, Harvard's debate team fell to a New York group of inmates.
The fight happened at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility, which is a maximum-security prison. It is a place where inmates can take classes taught by faculty from nearby Bard College, and where inmates have formed a popular group of debate club members.
Last month, they invited the Ivy League students and this year's national discussion winners over for a friendly contest.
The Harvard debate team in 2014 was crowned world champions.
The inmates are building a reputation of their own.
In the two years since they began a debate club, the participants have beaten universities and teams from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point.
At Bard, people who help train the inmates are not especially surprised by their success.
" students in the prison are held to the same standards, levels of rigor and expectation." said Max Kenner. "It is six New York prisons.
"Those students are very serious.
Against Harvard, the inmates were tasked with defending a position they opposed: They had to argue that students whose parents entered the United States illegally.
The inmates made arguments that the Harvard team did not think about.
Three students responded, and a neutral panel declared the inmates victorious.
"Being awarded wins is nice but it's not the most important thing," said Kenner, adding that the club is designed to help students express what they've learned. It is meant to help students articulate what they have learned.
Students on the Harvard team were not immediately available for comment. Shortly after the loss, members posted a "Hence the loss" message on the team's Facebook page.
"There are few teams we are prouder of losing a debate to than the phenomenally intelligent team.
"We are proud of Bard and the Eastern New York Correctional Facility for their work."
Inmates can earn different degrees through the program, which is taught in all parts by Bard college.
About 15 percent of all inmates in the Eastern New York Correctional Facility are incarcerated.
Graduates continue their studies at Columbia and Yale.
While in prison, they learn without the help of the Internet, relying instead on the college's resources.
"They want to give everybody every opportunity they have," Kenner said.
MA. As U.S. President Barack Obama's announcement that he was postponing U.S. missile strikes against the Syrian regime hit the Zaatari refugee camp, so did anger.
"If they do strike, let them strike once and for all and bring the regime down," Um Hafiz said. She fled with her husband and five children from their village near Syria's southern city of Daara in January.
Other residents said Sunday that Obama's decision to first seek congressional authorization for a U.S. military operation would embolden Syrian President Bashar Assad, so much so that he might even attack a major recruiting ground.
"We were content when we first heard that the U.S. would attack, but then when it was postponed, we were afraid that Bashar would attack the camp," said Raad Zoubi. The 23-year-old has lived in the dusty, sun-stricken swath of tents and prefabricated metal huts.
" "There's a lot of anger, but if the Americans do attack, we will be happy they do."
Expectations ran high in Zaatari late last week as the United States said it was about to launch cruise-missile strikes. It said it had determined "with high confidence" that the Assad regime was behind an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack on a rebel-held Damascus suburb that killed at least 1,429 civilians. There was no immediate word on whether the strikes would take place.
Camp residents heard Obama announce his decision to postpone the operation on live broadcasts and public. The words were broadcastred Saturday by Arabic-language television channels received over the satellite dishes. They sprout like mushrooms on the trash-strewn streets.
"Everyone was watching," said Zoubi, a baker from Taybeh, a village outside of Daara. It was there that the anti-Assad protests that led to the brutal civil war broke out on March 18, 2011, he said.
Coming from a country that the Assad family has ruled for four decades, it is doubtful that most of the camp's more than 120,000 residents understood Obama.
FadilIssa, 35, said many refugees think Obama called off the U.S. strikes for fear they could have triggered hostilities between the United States and Iran, one of Assad's main allies.
People have been disappointed with this postponement.
They don't know why he's afraid of Iran," he said.
including the nightly return to Syria by refugees so tired of the camp's heat, filth, tedium. She willingly brave the risky border crossing to return to old homes or seek new ones. She willingly brave the risky border crossing to return to old homes or seek new ones. she willingly brave the risky border crossing to return to old homes or seek new ones.
Hus Hussein waited in the sultry late afternoon heat with scores of other men, women and children at unofficial border crossings maintained by Jordanian.
From there, they were to walk to Syrian territory controlled by the Free Syrian Army. The Free Syrian Army is a loose amalgam of different rebel groups in the country.
Buses are limited and seating is first come, first served.
So the crowd charged the cars as they pulled up in clouds of choking dust, pushing and shoving through the doors. Their possessions were crammed in old suitcases and cloth bundles.
Jordanian security forces stood by in three armored cars, on guard against serious violence.
The buses were followed by a truck carrying a trailer with the windows cut into its sides. On the rear of the trailer was a staircase that swings down from the rear.
It appeared to be bringing rebel fighters back into Syria as only men and teenage boys swarmed into the trailer. Some pushed their bags through the windows.
"It's unbearable to live here," said Hafiz, who watched the scene. Several of her daughters clustered around her side.
"Even with all the rocket explosions, it's better over there.
We're not afraid of it.
Whatever God has written for us will come to pass."
In the popular view they are microscopic remnants of ancestral pigment granules. They offer clues to the colors of winged dinosaurs.
But a new study by a Drexel University graduate suggests a different explanation that has got some of the people a bit upset. It's a good one, though.
Alison E. Moyer, now a Ph.D. student at North Carolina State University, says the cigar-shaped "microbodies," just one-millionth of a meter long, might simply be impressions left by ancient bacteria. It is not known how old the microbodies are, but they appear to have been around for a very long period of time.
Their shape and size do not rule out either interpretation, she says.
"You have these little structures that look very similar, so we need to be careful," said Moyer. He is the lead author of the paper, which was published this month in the journal Scientific Reports, which is published by Scientific Reports. The study was conducted by Moyer and his colleagues.
The study has caused a heated social media reaction. One researcher has suggested that the shapes are melanosomes or pigment granules.
Others have been more accepting of Moyer's work, recognizing it as a valuable challenge to common views.
This is perhaps more prevalent in paleontology than in other areas of scientific. The only surefire way to answer some questions about the past would be to travel back in a time machine. It does not have to be that way, however. and it does not have to be that way, as well.
Failing that, Moyer came across a life-time machine: a chicken.
Paleontologists consider birds to be modern dinosaurs, so Moyer grew bacteria on them by taking chicken feathers.
She compared the bacteria with the pigment granules inside the feathers, together with the oblong impressions found in winged dinosaurs.
The shape, size and distribution of the fossil impressions suggested bacteria, she said. It is still possible that they were pigment granules, she said.
His work was carried out by prominent N.C. State paleontologist Mary H. Schweitzer.
Among her co-authors was Ken Lacovara, a professor of geology and paleontology.
Matthew D. Shawkey, an associate professor in the integrated neuroscience program at the University of Akron: "bad science."
Shawkey, who was involved in a 2012 study that found that the winged dinosaur Archaeopteryx was black, objected to Moyer.
Among them was the juxtaposition of two pictures. One showed cigar-shaped bacteria on a chicken feather, the other showed similar-shaped impressions found in Archaeopteryx's fossil.
At a look, the dark shapes in the two pictures appear to be about the very same size.
Shawkey's beef is that the pictures are reproduced at different sizes (as indicated in the fine print) and that the bacteria on the feathers. What's more, the chicken feathers are four times as long as the impressions in the fossils. This means that the bacteria on the chicken feathers are actually four times as long as the impressions in the fossils. The bacteria on the chicken feathers are actually four times as long as the impressions in the fossils.
"That's not a good way to give confidence in your paper," Shawkey said.
Moyer says the bacteria are closer to twice the size of the fossil.
(To the untrained eye, the graininess of the photo makes it a little hard to establish.
While Shawkey fired off more than a dozen tweets objecting to the paper. Another scientist had a more receptive attitude.
"It's always good to take one step back," said Johan Lindgren. He is a Sweden-based associate professor at the faculty of Lund University in Sweden, an associate professor of economics.
So how did the other researchers conclude anything about the color of dinosaur feathers if all that was left of the supposed pigment granules was their fossilized marks?
The key is their shape.
By looking at what granule shapes were associated with which colors in modern birds, the researchers. They concluded that green, brown or black were typical colors of winged dinosaurs. The scientists concluded that various winged dinosaurs were black, gray or brown.
Or maybe not, maybe not.
Moyer said, "There's a lot of work to be done."
