Chinook tribes met Lewis and Clark when they came to the Columbia in 1805.
The tribes brought food to the expedition and helped with navigation.
More than 200 years after the first contact, the Chinook Indian Nation has a constitution and annual meetings.
It is not recognized by the U.S.
"They say we're extinct, but my family lives on our land.
Chinook tribes' lack of official recognition could change under a 35-year process.
Changes include moving the earliest date for tribes to reapply for federal recognition into the 1930s, something previously prohibited.
Federal recognition is desirable because it allows tribes to receive federal budget help and health care services.
A federally recognized tribe is a sovereign nation with the right to create and enforce laws, determine membership criteria and regulate activities within its jurisdiction.
For some Washington tribes, the change may make recognition easier.
These tribes say the changes still mean a long way to gain the recognition they need.
"We are pleased with the proposed changes, but we know there is still work to be done," said Sue Hall, the Snohomish Tribe of Indians.
The Chinooks, along with the Duwamish Tribe, received federal recognition in 2001.
But then-President George W. Bush's administration quickly overturned the recognition, saying the Duwamish had had a temporary lapse in tribal government and the Chinooks had not always lived in a cohesive community.
One change, called "Part 83," would require tribes to show political influence only from 1934 rather than from historical times.
This could help Chinooks because the nation has more modern documentation than oral history, Elliott said.
"You can't expect tribes that didn't honor treaties to do so, especially when almost everyone was sent to school," he said. In the late 1800s, the U.S. government removed Indian children from their families and sent them to boarding schools.
"How can you tell people you can't do anything Indian and then have to prove they kept records from 1851 or 1855?"
It forces tribes to relive "difficult times in their history," said Michael Willis, a lawyer at Hobbs, Straus, Dean & Walker LLP.
If there is one thing we are, we are stubborn.
We do not give up.
Duwamish Tribe Chairwoman Cecile Hansen said the changes do not take away from the ultimate goal.
"No Indian should have to show up," Hansen said.
"I have done it 39 years.
Why should I have to make a new one?"
The BIA will hold hearings in July for the public to comment.
May 22, an effort to make tribal recognition more clear and efficient.
JERUSALEM - Prof. Mohammed Dajani expected criticism when he went to Auschwitz site last month.
But not for the uproar that came.
In online comments, Palestinian critics called it treason.
The professor was advised to keep a low profile and consider going abroad.
"People said we gave support to Zionism and promoted its propaganda," Dajani said in an interview in East Jerusalem, the Arab side of the city.
Dajani is Al Quds University's director of American studies. His goal is to promote a culture of moderation and reconciliation among Palestinians.
He is no stranger to issue.
Dajani said he came to Auschwitz three years ago on a visit sponsored by The Aladdin Project, a Paris-based organization.
"I see a lot of Holocaust denial in my community.
"People do not want to know pain," Dajani said.
Because of its crucial role in Israel's creation, the Holocaust has political overtones in Palestinian society.
Palestinians consider their mass displacement and expulsion in the war that followed the establishment of Israel a "catastrophe" of similar magnitude.
"Holocaust is not taught in schools," Dajani said.
"It is an ignored history, or a plot to create a Jewish state in Palestine.
Dajani has public advocated for Holocaust education and devoted part of his class.
The research project at Friedrich Schiller University in Jena, Germany, also included a visit to Deheishe, a Palestinian refugee camp in the West Bank.
"We didn't want to risk jeopardizing the visit, so we kept it very quiet," he said. There was no prior notice of the trip, the first of its kind by Palestinian students.
The group went to Krakow to learn about Jewish life before the Holocaust, visiting synagogues.
In Auschwitz, the group heard from two Israelis and a Polish.
"I went to the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago, but this was different.
"When you step on millions, it makes a difference."
"People said we sympathy the occupier, but I say no, it was for the people killed there.
Nasser al-Qadi, a Al Quds student, said he joined the trip because it was "our humanitarian duty."
"We came for education and we think there is no limit," al Qadi said.
He said Israelis should feel the same way about Palestinian displacement.
Abdullah Dweikat, a columnist at Watan, said: "We reject the killing of any person based on religion, nationality or political views, but we also reject the killing of our people every day.
Sweidan called their visit a brave step and said many people privately supported them, acknowledging that the public atmosphere kept them from speaking.
Dajani, a scion of a prominent Palestinian family from Jerusalem, was active in Lebanon's Fatah movement in the 1960s and later studied in the United States.
He said treatment by an Israeli hospital for his father was a turning point in his view of Israelis.
"Israel conflict has poisoned the whole view of the Holocaust," Dajani said. Recognizing the event is "undermining national narrative."
"I did it because I wanted to," he said.
"I would do it again.
Three weeks ago, you'd probably get a five- egg omelet from Roxanne's Cafe in the Parkville suburb of Kansas City.
Roxanne's is better.
The egg means three eggs.
No more or less.
"I have a cook I can't control.
He can't cook eggs right now.
Egg prices at Roxanne's Cafe have increased in the past month.
May 5, Gray paid $17.55 per egg.
It was $42.85.
Roxanne's is not alone.
Some supermarkets have increased eggs prices from 99 cents to $3.
Restaurants and bakeries around the nation are feeling the effects of the recent bird flu outbreak in the Midwest.
"This is the most devastating disease in the U.S. for any species," said Missouri Egg Council Executive Director Jo Manhart.
47 million chickens and turkeys have lost since the virus began.
Iowa, the country's top egg producer, is hit hardest.
More than 30 million hens live in Iowa.
The virus hit only 10 birds in a flock.
Last week, the Kansas state government banned chickens, turkeys and other live birds from fairs in 2015 for spreading the virus.
The disease has cut egg production.
Last week, the U.S. government cut its production forecast to 95.9 billion this year.
The virus hit at a time when the U.S. produced nearly 100 billion eggs last year.
Protein-rich diets are growing and last year, people ate 263 eggs on average, a 30-year high.
"The eggs were on a roll," said Kevin Burkum, American Egg Board senior vice president.
Roxanne's may try to offset high egg prices.
Owner Gray changed the daily specials to include meals that do not include eggs, like goulash and catfish.
The last resort, a desperate measure: price increase.
At the time, the wholesale price was 63 cents.
That has almost quadrupled to $2.35, said Urner Barry market reporter.
Besides restaurants and bakeries, supermarkets are also affected.
Some are the usual suspects - ice cream and bread, but other products are egg products too, like makeup and shampoo.
Hen House said its costs had gone up about 40 percent in the last couple of weeks.
It is not clear how the H5N2 virus spread to wild birds from poultry in enclosed facilities.
The virus is spread by physical contact, such as bird droppings.
But Iowa State University's Hong Wei Xin believes the virus can also travel in the air and enter hatcheries and barns.
The virus is killed by heat, and outbreaks slow in summer months.
Xin hopes that by autumn, when wild birds migrate back into the Midwestern states, enough research will have been done.
No guarantees.
Cooks didn't have to worry about how many eggs, and owner Roxanne Gray allowed it.
San Jose, Calif. scientists are planning how to pluck, park and push an asteroid between here and the moon.
While we all try to avoid space rocks, NASA has a $ 105 million plan to bring one to Earth.
It's the space age Muhammad to the mountain and the first step to Mars.
"Our goal is to go out and capture it and then get it into the hands of people who can understand it," said David Korsmeyer, engineering director at NASA Ames Research Center.
Asteroids command respect as a big one could play with.
February's twofer - a little one and a big one - only added to the.
But pursuing one could send us deeper space.
That's because we need a better car than a rocket.
With new NASA money, engineers want to design a slow-moving, sustainable trip to find an asteroid.
It's not just the place, but the scientists.
After finding a suitable rock, push, tug or harpoon the rock.
Or maybe it could lasso it like a 21st century version of Roy Rogers.
"It has been more than 40 years since we've been to deep space," said G. Scott Hubbard, who led NASA Ames and designed the Mars Pathfinder mission.
"We have the "chops," he said.
"It's a space technology for the future."
The "Asteroid Retrieval Mission" is a major new goal for a company that has retired the shuttle fleet and set up a moon landing.
Last year, the California Institute of Technology suggested the idea at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
Obama said we would land on an asteroid by 2025.
His reception in Congress is cooler.
To bring home an asteroid will cost a lot, warned Stanford's Hubbard.
$ 105 million is only a down payment on a huge project.
Ames and other NASA centers will work out the details in the summer.
At Ames, "we can help make the mission better," he said.
Ames scientists could use tools like the CheMin device on the Mars rover to study Martian rock composition.
Ames can help find an asteroid.
Most asteroids are too far away to be useful.
Some are big.
But small ones can be easily grabbed by unmanned ships, NASA says.
Asteroids formed about 4.6 billion years ago and hold clues about our origins and possibly gold.
Although the main goal is not to protect Earth from an asteroid, the technology could help divert a larger rogue asteroid, said former astronaut Tom Jones.
The perfect asteroid will be hard to find as it is too small to reflect light.
It doesn't want to be caught.
NASA calls it "uncooperative."
It is moving at 17,000 mph, in its own orbit.
It may not be solid, but just a lot of ice.
The challenge is to catch it.
Korsmeyer calls it a "game."
Catch a ball on the ferris wheel.
Once caught, it was pushed or pulled close to the moon.
There, ships came to chip off chunks to study.
Astronomers would visit.
"It's not easy," Korsmeyer said.
"You're trying to put a ball in the pocket."
On June 28, 2009, Stephen Hawking had a party at the University of Cambridge with balloons and hors d'oeuvres.
All were invited but none showed up.
Hawking sent out the invitations only after his party ended.
It was, he said, "a welcome reception for future time travelers." This was a tongue-in-cheek test of his 1992 conjecture.
Hawking is on the wrong side of history.
Recent studies support time travel at least from a mathematical point.
The prospect of time travel, far from being a science fiction topic, has deep implications for fundamental physics as well as practical applications such as quantum cryptography and computing.
Our best physical theories seem to contain no ban on going back in time.
Einstein's general relativity theory describes gravity as the warping of space by matter and energy.
An extremely strong gravitational field, like that of a black hole, could warp spacetime so that it bends back.
This would create a CTC, a loop that can be crossed in time.
Hawking and many other physicists view CTCs as a trap, as any macroscopic object would create paradoxes.
In a 1991 model proposed by David Deutsch, quantum paradoxes could be avoided at the quantum scale by only following fuzzy rules of probability.
Ralph and his PhD student Martin Ringbauer recently tested and confirmed many aspects of Deutsch's model.
Much of Deutsch's model has dealt with the "grandfather paradox," where someone uses a CTC to travel back in time to murder his own grandfather.
Deutsch's grandfather paradox works like this:
Instead of going through a CTC to kill your ancestor, imagine turning a switch on the machine that created it.
If the switch is flipped, the machine emits a particle; if not, it emits nothing.
There is no deterministic certainty of the emission, only a probability.
In quantum theory, Deutsch insisted that any particle entering one end of a CTC must emerge at the other end with equal properties.
Therefore, a particle with a probability of one half would enter the CTC and come out the other end of the switch with a probability of one half going back to enter the CTC.
If the particle were a person, it would be born with a one-half chance of killing her grandfather and one-half chance of escaping death at her hands.
This solution is against known quantum mechanics laws.
In their new simulation Ralph, Ringbauer and their colleagues used Deutsch's model to study a quantum system that they say is mathematically similar to a CTC.
"We encode the second as a previous incarnation of the first," says Ringbauer.
So instead of sending a person through a time loop, they ran a stunt double through a time-loop simulator to see if it would exactly resemble the original person.
"We're not going back in time, but we can study weird evolutions that are not allowed in quantum mechanics.
Those "weird evolutions" enabled by a CTC, Ringbauer says, could break quantum cryptography by cloning basic particles.
" quantum mechanics allows CTCs to do much more information processing than we think normal or classical quantum computers can," said Todd Brun, a physicist at the University of Southern California.
But this cannot test the Deutsch model itself, which cannot be done with a CTC."
Deutsch's model is not the only one.
In 2009, Massachusetts Institute of Technology theorist Seth Lloyd proposed a less radical alternative to Deutsch's grandfather paradox using quantum teleportation and postselection.
Lloyd went on to run successful lab simulations in 2011.
A Deutschian CTC traveler enters a universe that has nothing to do with the one she left.
By contrast, post-selected CTCs keep correlations. They return to the same universe.
This property of Lloyd's model would make CTCs less powerful than computers in most cases.
"The problems our CTCs can help solve are like finding needles in haystacks.
A Deutschian CTC could solve why haystacks exist."
Lloyd acknowledges the speculative nature.
"I don't know which model is right.
Both are wrong," he said.
Of course, the other possibility is that Hawking is right.
Time travel party planners should save the champagne for themselves.
If animals evolved in an alien ocean, what would they look like?
Much like on Earth, a team of scientists say.
A new study of some ocean swimming species found a surprising and elegant ratio.
This case, published in PLOS Biology, shows convergent evolution among unrelated animals and could help engineers build better robots.
Previous work has found similarities in how animals move through air or water.
At Northwestern University, a team of researchers began studying the black ghost knifefish.
The black ghost knifefish lives in South America using an underside undulating fin.
This is different from fish like trout or salmon, which move their tail back and forth.
Instead, it makes a wave down its thin fin, which runs the length of its body.
Fin swimmers are a whole host of sea creatures. Some have a single fin, while others have a pair, one on each side.
During their previous work on the ghost black knifefish, they found that the fish's maximum speed occurred when a total of two waves could fit in its fin.
They studied 22 different finned swimmers using video, computer modeling and lab studies.
They even trimmed the fin on a fin-swimming robot to see if that made a difference.
They did find a pattern, but it wasn't what they expected.
As it moved, each animal followed a specific pattern: the ratio was about 20 to 1 between each wavelength's amplitude.
Every wiggle of the fin was 20 times as long as the movement.
For each species they studied - skates, rays, cuttlefish and Persian carpet flatworm - the ratio remained 20 to 1.
The researchers think this pattern has emerged at least eight times because it maximizes speed ability.
A thousand more swimming species have the same ratio.
And if complex life with a fin to swim was found on another planet, this same ratio would probably emerge, said Northwestern's Malcolm MacIver.
"There are only a few ways animals can move," MacIver said.
If animals move through water on another planet, the same applies.
"Water," he said.
The results may help learn how to better build underwater robots.
Such skills are important, for example, when sending underwater vehicles to clean up oil spills.
Obama authorized U.S. airstrikes on Thursday night in northern Iraq, warning them to protect civilians under siege and defend Americans.
In a late-night statement, Obama said American planes have now carried out airdrops of food and water to tens of thousands of Iraqi religious minorities.
"America is here to help," he said.
It was the deepest American involvement in Iraq since U.S. troops left in late 2011.
Obama's much of his legacy as president has been on ending the " dumb war" in Iraq.
Food and water have been given to Yazidis stuck on a mountain without food.
The Yazidis, who follow an ancient religion linked to Zoroastrianism, were ordered to convert to Islam, face death or pay a religious fine.
Obama said he made the airdrops at Iraqi's request.
Mindful of the public's aversion to long war, Obama said a new round of U.S. military action was expected.
He vowed not to return combat troops to Iraq and said there was no U.S. military option.
Even so, he said he would launch airstrikes if IS advances on American troops in Irbil and the U.S. consulate.
"We take action when people are at risk," Obama said.
"That's my job as head."
He also said he would use military strikes if necessary to protect civilians.
The Pentagon said one C-17 and two C-130 cargo planes delivered 72 packages of food and water.
The planes brought 5,300 gallons of water and 8,000 meals. They were at low altitude for less than 15 minutes.
The mission to help the Yazidis is part of the U.S. mandate to help around the world.
Officials said the United States was ready to do more airdrops if needed, but did not say how soon.
U.S. officials said they believe the U.S. strikes would be consistent with international law because Washington asked for it.
Obama also said he had the power to act on his own to protect.
Obama sent about 800 U.S. forces to Iraq earlier this year to help joint forces in Baghdad and Irbil.
More than half provide security for the U.S.
No plans were made to evacuate Americans from Iraq but intelligence flights over Irbil were carried out with both manned and unmanned aircraft.
If he did, he's all but certain to go ahead without formal congressional approval.
Lawmakers left last week for a five-week recess and did not return.
But the White House was in contact on Thursday with some lawmakers, including Ohio's John Boehner.
Some Republicans have called for the president to take action and say he must.
After winning a national title, Harvard's debate team lost to New York.
The fight happened at a maximum-security prison where students can take courses from nearby Bard College, where inmates have formed a debate club.
Ivy League students and this year's national debate champions came over.
Harvard's debate team won the world in 2014.
Inmates build a reputation of their own.
In the two years since, the prisoners have beaten the U.S. Military Academy and the University of Vermont.
At Bard, those who teach the students are not surprised.
"Students at Bard are held to the same rigor and expectation as on the main campus," said Max Kenner, Bard's executive director.
"They are serious.
In support of Harvard, they had to claim that schools should be allowed to turn away students whose parents have come illegally.
Insight the Harvard team didn't consider.
Three students from Harvard answered, and a neutral judge decided to win.
"The fact that we won is great, but it's not the main thing," Kenner said.
Harvard students were not immediately available for comment, but soon after the loss.
"There are few teams we have lost to than the team we faced this weekend," he wrote.
"We thank Bard and the Eastern New York Correctional Facility for their work and this event."
Inmates can earn various degrees through the program.
About 15 percent of all men in Napanoch are enrolled in prison.
Students have studied at Yale and Columbia, Kenner said.
While in jail, they learn without the help of the Internet.
"They make the most of it," Kenner said.
AFRAQ, Jordan - When U.S. missile strikes hit the Syrian regime, so did anger and fear.
"If they strike, strike again and put the regime down," said Um Hafiz, who fled her village near Daara in January with her husband and five children.
Obama's decision to first seek congressional approval for a U.S. military operation may so embolden Syrian President Assad to attack the rebel-held city of Zaatari about five miles inside Jordan.
"We were happy when we first heard that the U.S. would attack, but then we were afraid that Bashar would attack the camp," said 23-year-old Raad Zoubi.
"People are angry, but we will be happy if they attack.
Expectations were high in the city after the United States said it had determined "with high confidence" that Assad was behind an Aug. 21 chemical attack in Damascus that killed at least 1,429 civilians.
Camp residents heard Obama's decision to delay the operation on Saturday's live broadcast on Arabic-language TV channels.
"Everyone was watching," said Zoubi, a 23-year-old baker from Taybeh, where anti-Assad protests began on March 18, 2011.
Coming from a country ruled by the Assad family for four decades, most of the camp's more than 120,000 residents are unlikely to understand the U.S. intervention.
Fadil Issa, a 35-year-old refugee who has lived in the city since leaving his village near Daara, said many refugees think Obama called off the U.S. strikes because of fear.
"People are unhappy with it.
I don't know why they fear Iran.
Refugees so tired of the heat, filth and crime in Syria, they willingly cross the border to return to old homes or find new ones.
Hussein waited in the late afternoon heat for the buses that would leave him at the Jordanian military's unofficial border crossings.
They then went to Syrian territory held by the Free Syrian Army.
Buses are limited and first come, first served.
So the crowd charged the cars as they pulled up, pushing and shoving through the doors.
Three armored cars of Jordan's security forces stood by, on guard.
The truck had windows cut into its sides and stairs coming down from the rear.
Only men and teenage boys appeared to enter the trailer, some pushing their bags through the windows, others crushing their way into the rear.
"It's bad here," said Hafiz as she watched, her daughters close by.
"It's better over there.
We are not afraid.
All that God has written will happen.
They are thought to be ancient pigment granules giving clues to the colors of dinosaurs.
But a new Drexel University study has ruffled some academic feathers.
Alison E. Moyer, a Ph.D. student at North Carolina State University, says one-millionth of a meter long "microbodies" could be old bacteria.
Its size and shape, among other features, cannot be ruled out.
"We have to be careful," said Moyer, who led the paper published in the journal Scientific Reports.
A researcher who favors the interpretation is that the shapes are melanosomes.
Others saw Moyer's work as a useful challenge to established view.
Paleontology is perhaps the only science where the only surefire way to answer questions is to travel back in a time machine.
Moyer found a time machine: a chicken.
Paleontologists believe birds are dinosaurs, so Moyer took feathers.
She compared the bacteria to the pigment granules found in fossilized feathers of winged dinosaurs.
The size, shape and distribution of the impressions suggested bacteria, he said.
N.C. state paleontologist Mary H. Schweitzer did the work.
His co-author was Ken Lacovara, a Drexel professor of paleontology.
Shawkey, an integrated science teacher at the University of Akron, said the new study was "bad science."
Shawkey, who led a 2012 study on Archaeopteryx feathers, had many objections to Moyer's paper.
The two images - one shows cigar-shaped bacteria on a chicken feather, the other shows impressions from Archaeopteryx fossil feathers.
The two images in the picture look about the same.
Shawkey's beef is that the images are different scale and that the bacteria is four times as long as the fossils.
"It's not a good way to trust a paper," Shawkey.
Moyer says the bacteria is about twice the size of the fossil.
The graininess of the image makes it hard to tell.
While Shawkey sent more than a dozen tweets objecting to the paper, another researcher saw things differently.
"It's always good to take a step back," said Professor Lindgren.
How did scientists conclude dinosaur feathers were color if all that remained was fossilized imprints?
The key is form.
By looking at what colors modern birds had, researchers concluded they were black, gray or brown.
Maybe not.
Moyer said, "It's a lot to do."
