SEATTLE — The Chinook tribes greeted Lewis and Clark when the explorers arrived at the Lower Columbia River in 1805.
The tribes helped members of the expedition through the winter. They brought them food and helped with navigation.
More than 200 years after that first contact, the five tribes that now make up the Chinook Indian Nation have a constitution, a tribal council and annual meetings.
They are not, however, recognized by the U.S. government.
"They say we are extinct, but my family still lives on
The Chinook tribes' lack of recognition could change under proposed changes to the 35-year process the U.S. Interior Department uses to officially recognize Indian tribes.
Changes include moving the earliest date from which tribes must provide documentation of their existence into the 1930s. They also allow tribes to reapply for federal recognition under certain circumstances, something previously prohibited.
Federal recognition is desirable because it makes tribal members and governments eligible for federal budget assistance as well as services such as health care, according to the federal Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA).
A federally recognized tribe is considered a sovereign nation. It has a government-to-government relationship with the United States. The tribe has the right to create and enforce laws, regulate activities within its jurisdiction and determine membership criteria.
For some Washington tribes, the proposed changes could make it easier to achieve federal recognition.
The tribes, however, acknowledge that the changes would still mean a long road ahead in gaining the recognition they have sought for years.
The Snohomish Tribe of Indians has fought for more than 30 years to gain federal recognition. "We are pleased by the proposed changes; however, we know that there is still a ways to go in the process," said Sue Hall, vice chair of the Snohomish Tribe of Indians.
The Chinooks, as well as the Seattle-area Duwamish Tribe, received federal recognition in 2001.
But both tribes' recognitions were quickly overturned by then-President George W. Bush's administration. It said the Duwamish had had a temporary lapse in tribal government and did not always live in a cohesive community. It said the Chinooks had not existed continuously through history.
One proposed change, known as the "Part 83 process," requires tribes to show community and political influence or authority only from 1934 rather than from "historical times," the requirement in existing law.
This could be helpful to the Chinooks, since the nation has more documentation from the modern era that goes beyond its oral history, Elliott said. It will help "level the playing field" for all tribes seeking recognition.
"You can't expect the tribes whose treaties weren't honored to get paperwork, especially when almost everyone was sent to boarding school," Elliott said. In the 1800s and 1930s, the U.S. government forcibly removed Indian children from their families and placed them in boarding schools in an effort to strip them of their culture and "civilize" them.
"How can you tell people you can't do anything Indian, but later, when you go to file, they have to prove from 1851 or 1855 that they have been keeping documents?"
The current rule forces tribes to relive the more "difficult times in their history," said Michael Willis. He is an attorney with the Washington, D.C., office of Hobbs, Straus, Dean & Walker LLP. His office focuses on legal issues affecting Indian Country.
"But if there is one thing we are, we are stubborn, which is the reason we are still here.
"We are not giving up.
C
"No Indian person in the United States should have to prove who they are," Hansen said.
"I have been doing this for 39 years.
Why should I have to go through another set of regulations?"
The BIA will hold hearings in July for federally recognized tribes and the public to comment on the proposed changes.
The changes were announced on May 22. The state says they will make tribal recognition more efficient and transparent.
BERKELEY — Professor Mohammed Dajani expected criticism when he took Palestinian students to Poland last month to visit the site of the Auschwitz concentration camp.
But he wasn't prepared for the uproar that followed.
In online posts and comments, Palestinian critics denounced the visit as treason.
The professor
"People said we were giving support to Zionism and promoting its propaganda, as if we were giving up on our rights," Dajani said.
Dajani is the director of the American studies program at Al Quds University. He heads an organization called Wasatia. Its goal is to promote a culture of moderation and reconciliation among Palestinians. Such values often seem in short supply in the festering conflict with Israel.
He is no stranger to controversy.
Dajani said the idea of taking students to Auschwitz took shape after he made a journey to the site three years ago. He was sponsored by The Aladdin Project, an organization that promotes understanding between Muslims and Jews.
"In my community you see a lot of ignorance of the Holocaust, denial of the Holocaust.
People don't want to recognize the suffering of the other," Dajani said.
Because of its crucial role in the creation of Israel, the Holocaust is freighted with political overtones in Palestinian society. Many Palestinians think that their people have paid the price for the persecution of the Jews in Europe.
Palestinians consider their mass displacement and expulsion in the war that followed the establishment of Israel a "catastrophe" of similar magnitude. They recall it in annual commemorations. Jews will mark Holocaust Remembrance Day this year beginning at sundown Sunday.
"The Holocaust is not taught in Palestinian schools and universities," Dajani said.
"It is a history ignored, mentioned as part of a plot to establish a Jewish state in Palestine, or as Zionist propaganda with exaggerated figures."
Dajani has advocated publicly for Holocaust education among Palestinians. He has devoted part of his own classes to the subject.
The trip to Auschwitz was arranged as part of a reconciliation research project. The project also included a visit by Israeli students to Deheishe, a Palestinian refugee camp in the West Bank.
"We didn't want to jeopardize the visit, so we kept it very quiet," he added. There was no prior announcement of the trip, thought to be the first of its kind by Palestinian students.
The trip included a trip to Krakow, where participants learned about Jewish life before the Holocaust. They also visited former Jewish neighborhoods and synagogues.
In Auschwitz, the group heard from two Holocaust survivors brought by the Israelis, and a Polish guide.
"I visited the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago, but here it was different," said Salim Sweidan, a former graduate student at Al Quds who joined the trip.
"When you step on the soil where millions were killed, it leaves a big impression."
"People accused us of showing sympathy with the occupier, but I say no, this was sympathy with the human beings who were killed there," Sweidan added.
Nasser al-Qadi is a student at Al Quds. He said he joined the trip because it was "our humanitarian duty, regardless of our rift with the Israeli side."
"We went there for education, and we believe that there are no restrictions over education," al Qadi added.
He said Israelis should recognize in similar fashion the Palestinian trauma of displacement and expulsion that accompanied the creation of Israel.
Abdullah Dweikat, a columnist, wrote on the Palestinian news website Watan: "We reject the extermination of any human being because of his religion, nationality or political views, but our humanity also rejects disregarding the wounds and pain of our people, who are being slaughtered every day at the hands of the occupiers.
Sweidan said that despite the public condemnations and disavowals, many people privately expressed support to participants. They called their visit a brave step and acknowledged that the public atmosphere had kept them from speaking out.
Dajani, a scion of a prominent Palestinian family from Jerusalem, was active in the Palestinian Fatah movement in Lebanon in the 1960s and '70s. He studied later in the United States and was allowed back by Israel to his native city in 1993 to care for his father, who was ill with cancer.
He said the treatment of his father and other Arab patients at an Israeli hospital was a turning point in his attitude toward Israelis. Previously, he said, he had viewed Israelis as representatives of an oppressive occupation.
"The conflict with Israel has poisoned the whole attitude toward" the Holocaust, Dajani said. He added that Palestinians do not want to acknowledge the event because it would "undermining the national narrative."
"I'm doing it because it's the right thing to do," he said.
"I would do it again."
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Three weeks ago, if you ordered a three-egg omelet from Roxanne's Cafe in the Kansas City suburb of Parkville, you would probably get a five-egg omelet instead.
Today, Roxanne's is
A three-egg omelet means three eggs.
No more, no less.
"I have one cook that I can't control his egging.
He's not allowed to cook any eggs right now. He's not allowed to cook any eggs right now.
That's because egg prices for Roxanne's Cafe have escalated enormously in the past month.
On May 5, Gray paid $17.55 per 15 dozen eggs.
Last week, she paid $42.85.
Roxanne's Cafe is not alone.
Some supermarkets have seen prices of a dozen eggs grow from 99 cents to $3 in the past few weeks.
Cafes, restaurants and bakeries around the nation are feeling the pain from recent outbreaks of bird flu. The disease is spreading through the Midwest.
"This is the most devastating foreign animal disease that has happened in the U.S. for any species," said Jo Manhart, executive director of the Missouri Egg Council.
Farmers have lost 47 million hens and turkeys since the virus began spreading a few months ago.
The country's top egg-producing state, Iowa, has been hit the hardest.
More than 30 million hens in Iowa have been affected.
In Kansas, the virus has hit only 10 birds in a backyard flock.
Despite the relatively small outbreak, last week the Kansas Department of Agriculture banned chickens, turkeys and other live birds from appearing in state and county fairs in 2015 for fear of spreading the virus.
The series of outbreaks has cut egg production.
Last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) lowered its forecast for domestic production this year to 95.9 billion.
The virus has struck at a time when eggs were
Last year each person ate 263 eggs on average.
"Prior to this outbreak, eggs were on a
R Roxanne's, probably like many cafes, is trying to compensate for high egg prices.
In addition, owner Gray changed the daily specials to include meals that don't include eggs, such as goulash and catfish.
Gray winced at the thought of the last resort, a desperate measure: raising menu prices.
Before the outbreak, the wholesale price of a dozen breaking eggs was 63 cents.
That has almost quadrupled to $2.35, according to Brian Moscogiuri. He is a market reporter for Urner Barry, a food industry trade publication.
Besides restaurants and bakeries, supermarkets are also grappling with the consequences of the virus.
Some of these egg products include the usual suspects — bakery items and ice cream, for example — but other goods are made with egg products as well. These include mayonnaise, marshmallow cream, makeup and shampoo.
Hen House said its cost has gone up about 40 percent in the last couple of weeks. It has had to pass some of that on to consumers.
It's not entirely clear how the virus transferred from wild birds, which are carriers of the H5N2 virus, to poultry packed in enclosed facilities.
Conventional wisdom says the virus is transferred through physical contact such as bird droppings.
Hongwei Xin is director of the Egg Industry Center at Iowa State University. He thinks the virus can also travel through the air and seep into cracks of hatcheries and barns.
Heat kills the virus, and outbreaks are expected to slow under the scorching sun of the summer months.
X hopes that by the time the summer gives way to autumn and wild birds migrate down through the Midwestern states once again, enough research will have been done to curb further outbreaks.
But there are no guarantees.
Cooks weren't too concerned about how many eggs they scooped into the frying pan, and owner Roxanne Gray gladly allowed it.
SAN, Calif. — Scientists are planning how to move an asteroid between here and the moon.
Most of us hope to dodge space rocks. But NASA wants to drag one closer to Earth. It will spend $105 million to do this.
It's the Space Age equivalent of bringing the mountain to Muhammad and a first step in our future voyage to Mars.
"Our goal is to go out there and rendezvous — then get it into the hands of the people who can understand it," said David Korsmeyer. He is director of the Engineering Directorate at NASA Ames Research Center, which will contribute to the project.
A big one could play us like a billiard ball.
February's two
But they're also valuable, and pursuing one could launch us into deeper space.
That's because we'll need a vehicle a whole lot better than a fuel-driven rocket.
Scientists hope to make a solar-electric vehicle. The vehicle would make a slow, steady and sustainable trip to find an asteroid. NASA gave the money to make the car.
It's the journey, not just the destination, that thrills scientists.
After finding a suitable space rock orbiting our way, the spaceship might push, tug or harpoon the asteroid.
It might stuff the rock into a big bag, or perhaps lasso it in some 21st century version of a Roy Rogers rope trick.
"As a space-faring country it has been more than 40 years since we have been to deep space," said Stanford University aeronautics professor G. Scott Hubbard. He conceived the Mars Pathfinder mission and formerly directed NASA Ames.
"We need to regain our 'chops,' " he said.
"It's a demonstration of space exploration technologies for the future."
The "Asteroid Retrieval Mission" is still under development in Washington, D.C. The government has retired the shuttle fleet and grounded a moon-landing plan. The return to the moon is a major new goal for the government.
The idea was suggested last year by the Keck Institute for Space Studies at the California Institute of Technology. It has found favor at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
In his sole space speech, President Barack Obama vowed we would land on an asteroid by 2025.
There's a cooler reception in the budget-wrangling Congress.
Developing the technologies needed to bring home an asteroid will greatly boost costs, warned Stanford's Hubbard.
The $105 million is just a down payment on a project that could cost billions of dollars.
In the summer, Ames and other NASA research centers will gather their scientists to work out the details.
At Ames, "we can provide tools that make the mission more successful," Korsmeyer said.
For instance, he said, Ames scientists could devise tools similar to their CheMin device aboard the Mars rover that analyzes the composition of Martian rocks.
Am could also build sensors to help find an asteroid.
Most asteroids live too far away to be useful when they're not crashing into, for example, Russia.
Some are very big and make a lot of noise.
But petite ones — say, the size of a dump truck — might be practical to grab using unmanned spaceships, NASA says.
A are the rubble left from the formation of our solar system about 4.6 billion years ago. They hold clues about our origins and, perhaps, valuable metals.
The main goal is not to protect the Earth from an errant space rock. But the technology could be used to divert a larger, rogue asteroid, said planetary scientist Tom Jones. He is an adviser to the asteroid-seeking B612 Foundation.
The hunt won't be easy. The perfect asteroid will be tough to find because it will be too small to reflect light.
It doesn't want to be captured.
NASA calls it "an uncooperative object."
It will be moving at 17,000 mph. It will be happy in its own orbit, and spinning like a top.
It may not even be solid, like granite, but just a tumbling bunch of rocky ice.
Then there's the challenge of catching it.
Korsmeyer calls it complicated "math game."
Picture trying to catch a baseball while on a Ferris wheel.
Once captured, it would be slowly pushed or pulled, and nudged close to the moon.
There, remote-controlled ships would arrive to chip off chunks for study.
Eventually, astronauts would visit it.
"It's not a trivial undertaking," Korsmeyer said.
"You are lining up a whole set of moving balls to try to put one in the pocket."
On June 28, 2009, the world-famous physicist Stephen Hawking threw a party at the University of Cambridge. There were balloons, hors d'oeuvres and iced champagne.
Everyone was invited but no one showed up.
Hawking had expected as much, because he only sent out invitations after his party had concluded.
It was, he said, "a welcome reception for future time travelers," a tongue-in-cheek experiment to reinforce his 1992 conjecture that travel into the past is effectively impossible.
But Hawking may be on the wrong side of history.
Recent experiments offer tentative support for time travel. At least from a mathematical perspective.
The study cuts to the core of our understanding of the universe. It would have profound implications for fundamental physics as well as for practical applications such as quantum cryptography and computing.
The source of time travel speculation lies in the fact that our best physical theories seem to contain no prohibitions on traveling backward through time.
Einstein's theory of general relativity says that gravity is the warping of spacetime by energy and matter.
An extremely powerful gravitational field, such as that produced by a spinning black hole, could in principle profoundly warp the fabric of existence so that spacetime bends back on itself.
This would create a "closed timelike curve," or CTC, a loop that could be traversed to travel back in time.
Haw
David Deutsch proposed a model in 1991. He said that CTCs could be avoided at the quantum scale because of the behavior of fundamental particles. Those particles follow only the fuzzy rules of probability rather than strict determinism.
Recently, Ralph and his PhD student Martin Ringbauer led a team that experimentally simulated Deutsch's model of CTCs for the very first time. The results confirmed many aspects of the two-decades-old theory.
Much of their simulation revolved around how Deutsch's model deals with the "grandfather paradox." In this scenario, someone uses a CTC to travel back through time to murder her own grandfather, thus preventing her own later birth.
Deutsch's solution to the grandfather paradox works something like this:
Instead of a human being traversing a CTC to kill her ancestor, imagine that a fundamental particle goes back in time to flip a switch on the particle-generating machine that created it.
If the particle flips the switch, the machine emits a particle—the particle—back into the CTC. If the switch isn't flipped, the machine emits nothing.
In this scenario there is no a priori certainty to the particle's emission, only a distribution of probabilities.
Deutsch's idea was to
A particle emitted by the machine with a probability of one half would enter the CTC and come out the other end to flip the switch with a probability of one half.
If the particle were a person, she would be born with a one-half probability of killing her grandfather. That would give her grandfather a one-half probability of escaping death at her hands.
Strange though it may be, this solution is in keeping with the known laws of quantum mechanics.
Ralph, Ringbauer and their coworkers studied Deutsch's model. They used a new way to do it. They used pairs of polarized photons within a quantum system. They argue that a single photon traversing a CTC is equivalent to a single photon traversing a CTC.
"We encode their polarization so that the second one acts as kind of a past incarnation of the first," Ringbauer says.
So instead of sending a person through a time loop, they created a stunt double of the person and ran him through a time-loop simulator. Then they checked if the doppelganger emerged from a CTC exactly resembled the original person as he was in that moment in the past.
"Of course, we're not really sending anything back in time but [the simulation] allows us to study weird evolutions normally not allowed in quantum mechanics."
The new technology could have remarkable practical applications, he says, such as breaking quantum-based cryptography through the cloning of the quantum states of fundamental particles.
"In the presence of CTCs, quantum mechanics allows one to perform very powerful information-processing tasks, much more than we believe classical or even normal quantum computers could do," says Todd Brun, a physicist at the University of Southern California who was not involved with the team's experiment.
But this experiment cannot test the Deutsch model itself. That could only be done with access to an actual CTC, he said.
Deutsch's model isn't the only one around
In 2009 Seth Lloyd, a theorist at Massachusetts Institute of Technology, proposed an alternative model of CTCs. He said that the grandfather paradox could be solved by using a technique called post-selection, rather than Deutsch's quantum self-consistency.
With Canadian collaborators, Lloyd went on to perform successful laboratory simulations of his model in 2011.
"That is, a time traveler who emerges from a Deutschian CTC enters a universe that has nothing to do with the one she exited in the future.
By contrast, post-selected CTCs preserve correlations, so that the time traveler returns to the same universe that she remembers in the past."
Lloyd's model would make CTCs much less powerful for information processing. Still, they would still be far better than computers could achieve in typical regions of spacetime.
"The classes of problems our CTCs could help solve are roughly equivalent to finding needles in haystacks," Lloyd says.
But a computer in a Deutschian CTC could solve why haystacks exist in the first place.
Lloyd, though, readily admits the speculative nature of CTCs.
"I have no idea which model is really right.
Probably both of them are wrong," he says.
Of course, he adds, the other possibility is that Hawking is correct, "that CTCs simply don't and cannot exist."
Time-travel party planners should save the champagne for themselves. Their hoped-for future guests seem unlikely to arrive.
If finned swimming animals evolved in an ocean on an alien world, what would they look like?
A team of researchers says
A new study looked at how certain swimming species move in the ocean. It found a surprising and elegant ratio in the way they move.
This could help engineers build better swimming robots.
Previous work has found that animals move through water and air in the same way.
A team of researchers at Northwestern University first began to wonder about common rules of movement after studying the black ghost knifefish.
The black ghost knifefish lives in freshwater streams in South America. It moves around primarily using an undulating fin attached to its underside.
This is unlike more well-known fish like trout or salmon. Those fish move their tail back and forth.
Instead, the knifefish causes a wave to undulate down its thin fin, which runs most of the length of its body.
There are a whole host of sea critters who move like this. Some have a single fin running along the length of their bodies, while others have a pair, one on each side.
During their previous work on the ghost black knifefish, the scientists noticed that the fish's maximum speed occurred when a total of two waves of motion could fit across the length of its fin. They wondered whether there might be a common rule across different species.
The scientists studied 22 different species of finned swimmers. They used video recordings, lab studies and computer modeling to determine what pattern, if any, might exist.
They even trimmed the fin on a fin-swimming robot. The fin looks like a torpedo with a ribbon strung underneath. They wanted to see whether that made any difference.
They found that there was indeed a pattern in their motion — though it wasn't quite what they expected.
Each animal seemed to follow a specific pattern as it moved. The ratio between the length of each undulating wavelength and the amplitude (or height) of each wavelength was about 20 to 1.
Every full back-and-forth wiggle of the fish's fin was 20 times as long as the wiggle was wide.
For each species they studied, that ratio remained 20 to 1.
The researchers think that this pattern of movement has independently arisen at least eight times. It's the pattern that maximizes the swimmer's ability to move efficiently with speed.
There could be a thousand more finned-swimming species that have the same ratio, the authors said.
If complex alien life were ever to be found on another planet using a fin to swim, this same ratio would probably emerge, said Patankar's co-lead author, Malcolm MacIver. He is a bio-engineer at Northwestern University.
"There's only a certain number of ways in which animals can move effectively," MacIver pointed out.
If those alien animals were moving through liquid water on another planet, then the same fluid constraints apply.
"Water's water," he said.
The findings could help scientists learn how to better build underwater robots that swim quickly and efficiently, the researchers added.
Such skills are critical, for example, when sending underwater vehicles to deal with oil spills. However, dogs cannot yet swim with the level of precision that these animals can.
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama authorized U.S. airstrikes in northern Iraq on Thursday night. He said the airstrikes would be launched if needed to defend Americans from advancing Islamic militants and protect civilians under siege.
In a televised late-night statement from the White House, Obama said American military planes already had carried out airdrops of humanitarian aid. Tens of thousands of Iraqi religious minorities were surrounded by militants and desperately in need of food and water.
"Today America is coming to help," he declared.
The announcements reflected the deepest American engagement in Iraq since U.S. troops withdrew in late 2011 after nearly a decade of war.
Obama has said he wants to end the "dumb war" in Iraq.
The food and water were delivered to tens of thousands of Yazidis trapped on a mountain without food and water.
The Yazidis are an ancient religion with ties to Zoroastrianism. They were told by the Islamic State group to convert to Islam or face death. They had to pay a religious fine or leave their homes.
Obama said the humanitarian airdrops were made at the request of the Iraqi government.
Many Americans do not want to see another lengthy war. Many Americans do not want to see another lengthy war. Many Americans do not want to see another lengthy war.
He vowed anew not to put American combat troops back on the ground in Iraq. He said there was no U.S. military solution to the crisis.
Even so, he outlined a rationale for airstrikes if the Islamic State militants advance on American troops in the northern city of Irbil and the U.S. Consulate there in the Kurdish region of Iraq.
"When the lives of American citizens are at risk, we will take action," Obama said.
"That's my responsibility as commander in chief."
He said he
The Defense Department said one C-17 and two C-130 cargo aircraft delivered 72 bundles of food and water.
The planes delivered 5,300 gallons of fresh drinking water and 8,000 pre-packaged meals. They were over the drop area for less than 15 minutes.
The president said the U.S. has the unique capabilities to help avert a massacre.
Officials said the United States was prepared to undertake additional humanitarian airdrops if necessary. They did not say how quickly those missions could occur.
Administration officials said they believe unilateral U.S. strikes would be consistent with international law. The Iraqi government has asked for Washington to take military action.
They also said Obama had the
In light of the militants' advances, Obama dispatched about 800 U.S. forces to Iraq earlier this year. Those troops were split between joint operation centers in Baghdad and Irbil.
More than half are providing security for the embassy and U.S. personnel.
Officials said there were no plans to evacuate those Americans from Iraq. However, the United States was conducting enhanced intelligence flights over Irbil.
If the president were to order actual airstrikes in Iraq, it's all but certain he would proceed without formal congressional approval.
Lawmakers left town last week for a five-week recess. There was no sign that Congress was being called back.
However, officials said the White House was in contact throughout Thursday with some lawmakers, including House Speaker John Boehner, R-Ohio, and Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky.
Some Republicans have expressly called for the president to take action and have said he doesn't need the approval of lawmakers.
B
The showdown took place at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility. There, convicts can take courses taught by faculty from nearby Bard College. They also have a popular debate club.
Last month, they invited the Ivy League undergraduates and this year's national debate champions over for a friendly competition.
The Harvard debate team also was crowned world champions in 2014.
But the inmates are building a reputation of their own.
In the two years since they started a debate club, the prisoners have beaten teams from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the University of Vermont.
At Bard, those who help teach the inmates aren't particularly surprised by their success.
"Students in the prison are held to the exact same standards, levels of rigor and expectation as students on Bard's main campus," said Max Kenner, who runs the Bard Prison Initiative. The program operates in six New York prisons.
"Those students are serious.
The inmates had to argue that public schools should be allowed to turn away students whose parents entered the United States illegally.
The inmates brought up arguments that the Harvard team hadn't considered.
Three students from Harvard's team responded. A panel of neutral judges declared the inmates victorious.
"The fact that we won is nice, but it isn't the most important thing," said Kenner. He added that the club is meant to help students explain what they've learned.
Students on the Harvard team weren't immediately available for comment, but shortly after the loss, they posted a comment on a team Facebook page.
"There are few teams we are prouder of having lost a debate to than the phenomenally intelligent and articulate team we faced this weekend," they wrote.
"And we are incredibly thankful to Bard and the Eastern New York Correctional Facility for the work they do and for organizing this event."
Inmates can earn various degrees through the program. It is taught primarily by Bard faculty.
About 15 percent of the all-male inmates at the Eastern New York Correctional Facility are enrolled.
Graduates of the program have continued their studies at Yale and Columbia universities, Kenner said.
While in prison, they learn without the help of the Internet. They rely instead on resources provided by the college.
"They make the most of every opportunity they have," Kenner said.
M
"If they're going to strike, let them strike once and for all and bring the regime down," grumbled Um Hafiz, who fled with her husband and five children from their village near Syria's southern city of Daara in January.
Other residents said Sunday that they worried that Obama's decision to first seek congressional authorization for a U.S. military operation would embolden Syrian President Bashar Assad. He might even dare to attack Zaatari, a major recruiting ground for rebel fighters about five miles inside Jordan.
"We were happy when we first heard that the U.S. would attack, but then when it was postponed, we were afraid that Bashar would attack the camp," said Raad Zoubi, 23, who has lived in the dusty, sun-stricken swath of tents and prefabricated metal huts for the past year.
"People are angry, but when the Americans do attack, we will be happy they do."
Tensions ran high in Zaatari late last week as the United States signaled that cruise-missile strikes were imminent. The United States said it had determined "with high confidence" that the Assad regime was behind an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack on a rebel-held Damascus suburb. At least 1,429 civilians were killed.
On
"Everybody was watching," said Zoubi, 23, a baker from Taybeh, a village outside Daara. The anti-Assad protests that led to the brutal civil war erupted on March 18, 2011.
Most of the camp's more than 120,000 residents come from a country that the Assad family has ruled for four decades. It's doubtful that most of the camp's more than 120,000 residents understood Obama's decision to seek congressional approval for the U.S. intervention.
Fadil Issa, 35, has been in Zaatari since leaving his village near Daara eight months ago. He said many refugees think Obama called off the U.S. strikes for fear they could have triggered hostilities between the United States and Iran, one of Assad's main allies.
"People are unhappy by this postponement.
They don't understand why he's afraid of Iran," he said.
The nightly return to Syria by refugees is common. Many are so tired of the camp's heat, filth, tedium and crime that they willingly brave the risky border crossing to return to old homes or seek new ones.
Hussein waited in the sultry late afternoon heat with scores of other men, women and children for the buses that would leave them at unofficial border crossings maintained by the Jordanian military.
From there, they were to walk to Syrian territory controlled by rebels of the Free Syrian Army. The Free Syrian Army is a loose amalgam of rebel groups.
Seats on the buses are limited and it's first come, first served.
So the crowd charged the vehicles as they pulled up in clouds of choking dust. They pushed and shoved through the doors, their meager possessions stuffed in cloth bundles and old suitcases.
Jordanian security forces in three armored cars stood by. They were on guard against serious violence.
The buses were preceded by a truck hauling a trailer with windows cut into its sides and stairs that swung down from the rear.
It appeared to be bringing rebel fighters back into Syria as only men and teenage boys swarmed into the trailer. Some pushed their bags through the windows before clambering through, others crushed their way up the stairs into the rear.
"It's unbearable to live here," said Hafiz as she watched the scene, several of her daughters clustered by her side.
"Even with rocket explosions, it's better over there.
"We're not afraid.
Whatever Allah has written for us will happen."
The scientists think the remains are the remains of ancient pigment granules. They offer clues to the colors of winged dinosaurs.
But a new study by a Drexel University graduate proposes a different explanation.
Alison E. Moyer is a professor at North Carolina State University. She says the cigar-shaped "microbodies," just one-millionth of a meter long, might simply be impressions left by very old bacteria.
Their size and shape, among other attributes, do not rule out either interpretation, she says.
"You have these little structures that look very similar, and so we have to be careful," said Moyer. He was lead author of a paper published this month in the journal Scientific Reports.
The study has prompted a heated social media reaction from one researcher. He thinks the shapes are melanosomes, or pigment granules.
Others in the field have been more accepting of Moyer's work. They acknowledge it as a helpful challenge to established views.
Such give-and-take is perhaps more prevalent in paleontology than in some other fields of science. After all, the only surefire way to answer certain questions about the ancient world would be to travel back in a time machine.
Failing that, Moyer found a living time machine: a chicken.
Paleontologists consider birds to be modern dinosaurs. So Moyer took chicken feathers and grew bacteria on them.
She compared the bacteria with the pigment granules inside the feathers, as well as with the oblong impressions found in fossilized feathers from winged dinosaurs.
The size, shape, and distribution of the fossil impressions suggested bacteria, though it is still possible that they were pigment granules, she said.
Her work was overseen by prominent N.C. State paleontologist Mary H. Schweitzer.
Among her co-authors was Ken Lacovara. He is a professor at Drexel University.
Matthew D. Shawkey is a professor at the University of Akron. He said the new research was "bad science."
Shawkey was involved in a 2012 study that determined the feathers of the winged dinosaur Archaeopteryx were black. He had several objections to Moyer's paper.
The
At a glance, the dark shapes in the two images look about the same size.
Shawkey's beef is that the images are reproduced at different scale. He says that the bacteria on the chicken feathers are actually four times as long as the impressions in the fossils.
"That's not a good way to give confidence in your paper," Shawkey said.
Moyer argues that the bacteria are closer to twice the length of the fossil impressions. Moyer counters that the bacteria are closer to twice the length of the fossil impressions.
To the untrained eye, the graininess of the image makes it a bit hard to tell who is right.
Shawkey fired off more than a dozen tweets objecting to the paper. Another scientist, Claudia Moyer, who has interpreted the shapes as pigment granules, had a more receptive attitude to the work of Moyer and her coworkers.
"It's always good to take one step back," said Johan Lindgren, a professor at Lund University in Sweden.
So how did the other scientists conclude anything about the color of dinosaur feathers, if all that remained of the purported pigment granules was their fossilized imprints?
The key was their shape.
The scientists determined that various winged dinosaurs were black, gray or brown.
Or maybe not. Or maybe not.
said Moyer, "There's a ton of work that needs to be done."
