The Chinook tribes were there to accept Lewis and Clark when they arrived at the Lower Columbia River.
The, they helped members of the expedition. They brought them food and helped them with navigation.
More than 200 years after that first contact, and the five tribes that now make up the Chinook Indian Nation.
It is not recognized by the U.S. government.
." "They say we are extinct, but my family still lives on our indigenous land," said Councilwoman Kate Elliott.
The Chinook tribes could lose legal standing to the others. The revival could be brought about by an undertaking to change the 35-year process the U.S. Interior Department uses to officially recognize Indian tribes.
Changes include moving the earliest place tribes need to show their life by to the 1930s. They also allow tribes to reapply for federal recognition. This is something that was previously prohibited.....
Governmentrecognized tribe is a great incentive for people. It makes tribal government members and governments eligible to get help with the government's budget and services such as health care, says the Federal Bureau of Indian Affairs (BIA).
A tribe incorporated and federally recognized is under a sovereign nation. It has a government-to-government relationship with the United States. It is a sovereign nation with the right to produce and enforce laws, regulate activities within its jurisdiction and set membership criteria.
One. A proposed change would require tribes to display community and political influence or authority only from 1934."
This could be helpful to the Chinooks, since the US history shows more. It will help "level the playing field" for all tribes seeking Recognition, Elliott said.
." "You can't expect the tribes whose treaties weren't honored to get paperwork, especially when almost everyone was sent to boarding school," said Elliott.Elliott was talking about the era from the late 1800s to the 1930s when the U.S. government forcibly removed Indian children from their families and placed them in boarding schools.
." Then he added, "If there is one thing we are, we are stubborn, and that is why we are still here.
We are not going to give up.
JERUSALEM. Professor Mohammed Dajani was courteous when he took some Palestinian students to Poland last month to go to the Auschwitz Concentration Camp.
He was not ready for the uproar.
PalESTAN TOAL. Palestinian critics have called upon the visit to be regarded as treason.
People advised the professor to keep a low profile. Avoiding his university campus, he figured about taking a vacation.
People," Dajani said in an interview. "People said we were giving support to Zionism and promoting its propaganda.
The American Studies instructor at Al Quds University, Dajani, heads an organization. That group is called Wasatia. It has declared its purpose to promote a culture of moderation and reconciliation among Palestinians. These values often seem to be in short supply in the festering Israel conflict.
He is not a stranger to controversy.
Dajani said the idea of taking students to Auschwitz took shape after he made a visit for three years for a visit sponsored by a Paris organization promoting understanding among Muslims and Jews dubbed The Aladdin Project.
"I find so much ignorance of the Holocaust.
People don't want to understand the suffering of the other," Dajani said.
Because of its important part in the formation of Israel, the Holocaust is freighted with political overtones in Palestinian. Some think their people have paid the price for the Jews' persecution.
Palestinians think about their lot transportation and expulsion over the war that followed the establishment of Israel a "catastrophe" of similar magnitude, and they remember it in annual commemorations just as Jews will mark Holocaust remembrance Day this year starting at sundown Sunday.
"Our kids are not taught about the Holocaust in Palestinian schools and universities," Dajani said.
It is actually a history that has been overlooked, talked about. In that case it is mentioned as part of the plot to set up a Jewish state." "Or Zionist propaganda with exaggerated figures."
DDajani has made public pleadings for Holocaust education. He has devoted some of his own exams to the field.
The visit to Auschwitz was arranged. The trip was organized as part of a Reconciliation study project presided by Friedrich Schiller University in Jena, Switzerland, which also included an Israeli student visit to Deheishe, a Palestinian refugee camp in the West Bank.
"Our plan was not to jeopardize the visit so we kept it very quiet," he added, saying aspirants were asked to seek out the visit "by word of mouth." There was no prior announcement of the trip, thought to be the first of its kind.
The group went to Krakow to learn about Jewish life before the Holocaust. It also visited former Jewish neighborhood and were visited synagogues and other places of Jewish life.
In Auschwitz they heard from two Holocaust survivors transported by Israelis. They also met with a Polish guide. the group heard from two Holocaust survivors.
I'd heard about the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago. But here it was different," said Salim Sweidan, a student at Al Quds who took part in the trip.
"On soils where millions of people were killed, you leave a big impression."
People accused us of showing sympathy with the occupier. But I say no, this was sympathy with the people that were killed there," Sweidan said.
Nasser al-Qadi, a doctorate candidate at Al Quds. He recounted that he contributed to the trip because it was "our humanitarian duty, regardless of our rift with the Israeli side."
He said Israelis should recognize the Palestinian trauma, related. It was accompanied by displacement and expulsion.
Abdullah Dweikat, wrote on the Palestinian news website Watan: "We reject the extermination of any human being because of his religion, nationality or political views, but our humanity also rejects disregarding the wounds and pain of our people.
Dajani was a scion of a famous Palestinian family from Jerusalem, was active in the Palestinian Fatah movement. Earlier he studied in the United States. He was allowed back to his native city in 1993. His father was ill with cancer.
He said the care for his father and other Arab injured people in an Israeli hospital was a turning point into his attitude when it came to Israelis, whom he saw solely as representatives of an oppressive occupation.
"I decided to do it because it was the right thing to do," he said.
." She said, "I would do it all over again."
KANSAS City, Mo. Three weeks ago, if you ordered a three- egg omelet from Roxanne's Cafe in Parkville in the Kansas City suburb.
Today Roxanne's is a lot more stringent.
A three- egg omelet is a combination of three eggs.
This is because egg costs for Roxanne's Cafe have actually gone up very much in the past month.
On May 5, Gray paid $17.55 for each 15-dog eggs.
She paid $42.85 last week.
Roxanne's Cafe is not the only one.
Some supermarkets have seen prices of a dozen eggs go from $3 to 99 cents.
Dining places, bakeries, and coffee shops across the country are feeling the pain of bird flu. In the Midwest, recent outbreaks of bird flu or avian influenza are expanding.
Farmers have lost 47 million hens and turkeys since the virus started spreading.
Iowa, the top egg country, has got the hardest hit.
There are more than 30 million hens in Iowa.
The virus in Kansas hit only 10 birds in a backyard flock.
After the small outbreak, last week, the Kansas Department of Agriculture banned chickens, turkeys and other live birds from appearing in state and county fairs in 2015 for fear of spreading the virus.
A series of outbreaks cut off the consumption of eggs. is a result of the series of outbreaks. to be able to cut down on egg production.
The U.S. Department of Agriculture published a report this week. It lowered its forecast for domestic production. It expects to produce 95.9 billion of products this year.
The virus has hit at a time when eggs were in the hands of consumers who want them. Last year, the U.S. produced nearly 100 billion eggs.
Consumers are getting more and more interested in protein-rich diets. Last year, each person ate on average 263 eggs, a 30-year high for eggs consumed.
Before this viral marketing. eggs were on a roll." Kevin Burkum, a senior president. Americans Egg Board.
Roxanne's, like many cafes, tries to be able to pay of the high eggs priced.
Along with aspect control. For his egg-heavy meals, Gray changed the daily specials. These now include meals that do not contain eggs, such as goulash and catfish.
Gray winced at the thought of the last resort, a desperate measure. It means that menu prices will go up.
The wholesale price of a dozen eggs. Just before the outbreak, the cost of a dozen breaking eggs was 63 cents.
This has almost quadrupled. Brian Moscogiuri is a market reporter for Urner Barry, a food trade publication.
Besides restaurants and bakeries, supermarket stores are also dealing with the disease.
Some of these egg items are the usual suspects. For example, bakery items are made with egg products. Other items are made with egg products, such as mayonnaise, marshmallow cream, makeup and shampoo.
Hen House said its cost went up about 40 percent when adding. It said it has had to pass some of that on to consumers.
It is not clear how the virus transferred from wild birds, H5N2 carriers, to birds in enclosed.
The virus is said to be spread through people's physical contact. This could be through bird droppings or even bird droppings.
But Hongzie Xin, associate provost of Iowa International E- eggs to be headquartered at Iowa. says particle of the virus can travel through the air and seep into fractures of hatcheries and barns.
Heat kills the virus and is expected to lessen.
X hopes that by the time the summer gives way to autumn's birds migrate down through the Midwestern states again, research.
There are, however, no guarantees.
Cook weren't too worried about how many eggs they scooped into the frying pan. The chef generously agreed to it.
San Jose, California: Scientist. They areScheming to change the heavens. Scientists are busy planning how they can pluck, push and park a spinning asteroid between here and the moon between here and the moon.
While most of us mean to dodge space rocks, NASA recently got. The agency has detailed a plan meant to build a spaceship to raise one closer to Earth.
It is the Space Age equivalent of bringing the mountain to Muhammad. It is the first step in our future journey to Mars.
" mission and that." David Kors Meyer, director of the Engineering Directorate at Mountain View, Calif.'s NASA Ames Research Center, which will contribute to the project.
Asteroids are very important to us because a big one can play us like a billiard ball.
February's twofer. A small one rocked Russia and a bigger one was a near miss; only added to the nervousness.
They are also valuable and pursuing one could take us into a great new space.
This is because we will need a car much better than a fuel-driven rocket.
With new NASA money, engineers hope to design a solar-electric car that would make a slow, steady trip.
It is the journey, not just the destination.
After finding a suitable space rock orbiting our way, the spaceship may push, tug or harpoon the asteroid.
Or it could stuff the rock into a big bag, or maybe lasso it in some 21st century version of a Roy Rogers rope.
"With as a space-faring country it has been more than 40 years." Out where asteroids lurk is the place we have been to. Stanford University aeronautics and space science professor G. Scott Hubbard. He conceived the Mars Pathfinder mission and was formerly director of NASA Ames.
"Now let's get back to our "chops," " he said.
It illustrates the technologies of space exploration."
The "Asteroid Retrieval Mission" still is in the works under President Washington's command. It is a big new goal for an agency that has retired the shuttle fleet.
It was recommended last year by the Keck Institute for Space Studies at the California Institute of Technology at the Keck Institute for Space Studies at the Keck Institute for Space Studies at the California Institute of Technology, which has found favor at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
President Barack Obama promised that we would land on an asteroid.
There is a cooler reception in the Congress.
Buildinging the expertise wanted to bring home an asteroid will very much raise prices, warned Stanford's Hubbard.
The $ 105 million is just a down payment on a project that can cost. It will cost billions of dollars in the long run. The project is still in the process of being completed.
Ames and other NASA scientists will gather in the summer.
At Ames is capable of giving tools to make the mission more successful.
Ames scientists might use tools such as their CheMin device aboard the Mars rover. This researches the composition of Martian rocks.
Ames can also build sensors to help find an asteroid.
Most asteroids live too far away to be useful if they do not crash into Russia.
Some are huge, and some are huge.
But small ones. They could be practical to grab using unmanned spaceships, NASA says.
Asteroids are the debris left over from the solar system's formation about 4.6 billion years ago. They hold clues about our origins and, maybe, precious metals. It is believed that they were formed in the same way as the planets of our solar system.
The main goal is not to protect the Earth from an errant space rock, "but." It could be useful in diverting a bigger, rogue asteroid. said planetary scientist and former astronaut Tom Jones. He is an adviser to the B612 Foundation, which is trying to find the asteroid that it seeks.
The hunt is not going to be easy: The perfect asteroid will be difficult to find because it will be too small to be reflected by.
It also doesn't want to be captured.
NASA called it an "uncooperative."
It will be moving at 17,000 mph, happy in its orbit. It will be spinning like a top. It will be happy in its own orbit, happy in its own orbit, and happy in its own orbit, and happy in its own orbit.
It may not be solid like granite, it might be a tumbling few rocks.
Then there is the problem of catching it.
Kors Meyer called it a complicated "math game."
Think about trying to catch a baseball on a Ferris wheel.
Once caught, it would be either pushed or pulled. It would then be nudged close to the moon.
There, ships would come to chip off chunks of the rock for study.
Astronaut would eventually go on to visit it.
." "This is not a small task," Kors Meyer said.
You would lined up a whole group of moving balls to try to put one in the pocket."
On June 28, 2009. Stephen Hawking threw a party at the University of Cambridge. The party was complete with balloons, hors d' hors d' hors d' hors.
Everyone was invited but no one showed up.
Hawking had expected as much because he only sent invitations.
It was "a welcome reception for future time travelers," he said, a tongue-in-cheek experiment to bolster his 1992 conjecture.
Hawking is probably on the wrong side of history.
Talks are now looking at how recently study will indicate feasibility of time travel..
The new study cuts to. We're entering the heart of our understanding of the universe and resolving the issue of time travel is far from being a matter just of science fiction. This has profound implications for basic physics and practical applications such as quantum cryptography and computing.
The main cause of time travel ideas is the fact our best physical ideas do not include any prohibition on traveling back.
The feat is thought to be possible through the relativity theory by Einstein. It describes gravity as the warping of spacetime by energy and matter.
A highly significant Gravigational force, like that produced by a spinning black hole, could in principle profoundly warp the fabric of life so that spacetime bends back on itself.
This would create a "closed timelike curve," or CTC, that can be traversed. It is a way to get to a different time.
Hawking and many other physicists find CTCs abhorrent because they always make it easier for any thing who travels via the one.
In a model put forward in 1991 by the influential thinkpiece. It implies that paradoxes created by CTCs can be avoided at the quantum scale. This is because basic particles follow only fuzzy rules of probability rather than strict determinism.
In rapid. Just lately Ralph and his PhD student Martin Ringbauer led a group that experimentally simulated Deutsch's model of CTCs for the very first time, testing and confirming many aspects of the two-decades-old theory.
The majority of the course of play has centered around studying how Deutsch's model deals with the "grandfather paradox," a hypothetical scenario in which someone uses a CTC to travel back through time to kill her grandfather, thus preventing her later birth.
De Germans quantum proposal gets rid of the grandfather paradox. The quantum solution to the grandfather paradox works something like this:
Instead of people cross a CTC to kill their ancestors, imagine that an enzyme polymer. Convince that a fundamental particle goes back in time to flip a switch on the machine that created it.
If the switch is turned, the machine emits a particle-like stateBack into the CTC. If the switch is not turned, the machine emits nothing.
There is no a priori deterministic surety about the particles particle emission, only a spread in probabilities.
Deutsch's idea was to postulate a very nature. He was claiming that any particle entering one end of a CTC must emerge at the other end with identical properties.
If the particle were people, he would be born with a one. His grandfather would have a one-half probability of dying at his hands. This is good enough in probabilistic terms to close the causative loop.
Strange though it may be, this is in keeping with the quantum mechanics.
In their new study Ralph. Ringbauer and fellow scientists studied the interactions between pairs of people working in a quantum system to get a single photon traversing a CTC.
." "We encoded their polarisation so that the second one is kind of an older. It acts as a incarnation of the first."
Instead of sending a person through a time loop, there was an incredible stunt. They created a stunt double of the person and ran him through a time-loop simulator. The doppelganger looked exactly like the original person.
." "Clearly we're not really sending anything back in time, but [the simulation] lets us study weird evolutions. They're normally not allowed in quantum mechanics."
These strange evolutions. These'special'CTC embodiments, says Ringbauer., would have amazing practical applications like breaking the quantum cryptography. This could be done by cloning the quantum states of the fundamental particles of matter.
"Inside all CTCs, quantum mechanics permits you to do very powerful information-processing jobs. Much above we believe classical or even typical quantum computers can do," says Todd Brun, a physician at the University of Southern California.
But this exam that however does not test the Deutsch. Because it could only be done with access to an actual CTC." It is not possible to do this experiment by itself......................................................................................... "
Deutsch's style is not the only one out there, however.
Seth Lloyd, Principal at. State Institute of Technology, in 2009, proposed an alternative, less radical. According to him, the grandfather paradox is resolved using quantum teleport and a technique called post-selection, rather than Deutsch's quantum self-consistency.
Together with Canadian scientists Lloyd has been playing trial simulations.
." Consequently, a time traveler is a true time traveler. He emerges from a Deutschian CTC into a universe without regard to whichever one he went.
Teams or post. They also keep their correlated. The time traveler returns to the same universe she remembers in the past. This means that the time traveler goes back to the same universe that she remembers in the past." It is the same universe that she remembers in the past."
Lloyd does admit to the speculative nature.
." But I don't really know which model is the right one. and I don't really know which model is the right one.
Maybe one or the other is wrong," he said.
The other possibility is the one that Hawking is right. He says, "that CTCs simply don't and can't exist," "that they don't exist at all."
Time planners must save the champagne for themselves. Their hoped-for future guests seem unlikely.
Very much like the ones on Earth, a group of scientists says.
A new study to look. A new study that investigated the movement of certain swimspeaks in the ocean found a surprising and elegant ratio in the way they move.
This ratio in the journal PLOS Biology. This is a surprising case of convergent evolution. It could help engineers build better swimming robots.
A group of scientists at Northwestern University first started to wonder about common rules of motion after studying the black ghost.
The black ghost knifefish lives in freshwater streams in South America. It mainly moves around with an undulating fin attached to the bottom. It is also known as the "black ghost knifefish."
This is different from more popular fish such as trout or salmon. They sweep the tail (and the rear portion of their bodies) back and forth.
The knifefish is able to do this by cause a wave to go down its thin fin. It runs most of the length of its body.
There are a whole host of sea critters. Some have a single fin running along the length of their bodies, while others have a pair, one on each side.
During their previous work on the ghost black knifefish there were some finds. Scientists noticed that the fish's maximum speed happened when a total of two waves could fit across the length of its fin. They wondered if this was a common rule.
TheScientists studied 22 different species of finned swimmers. They used videos, lab studies and computer modeling to find out what patterns might exist.
They found there was clearly a pattern in their moving although it was not.
Every complete back-and-forth wiggle. That's which means every full back-and-forth wiggle of the fish's fin was 20 times as long.
For every species studied by the scientists. These included skates, rays, black ghost knifefish, cuttlefish and the Persian carpet flatworm.
The researchers think this movement has happened at least eight times because it maximizes the swimmer's speed capacity.
And if there are complex alien life forces on another planet. Using a fin to swim together would probably happen, said the study's co-felterially. He was led by Malcolm MacIver, a bioengineer at Northwestern.
TheResults of the study could help scientists better build underwater robots that swim quickly and efficiently. are now in progress, the researchers said.
Washington: President Barack Obama has ordered U.S. airstrikes in northern Iraq, warning they will be launched if needed to defend Americans from Islamic militants' advance.
Obama made a news live video from the White House. He said American military planes had already carried out airdrops of humanitarian aid to tens of thousands of Iraqi religious minorities surrounded by militants and desperately in need of food and water.
America's come to help," he said.
The government's decision is the most important American military news since U.S. troops withdrew from Iraq in late 2011 after battling a lot.
Obama has staked much of his legacy.Obama, who kept his remarks steady and somber, had staked much of his legacy.
Food supplies were delivered to tens of thousands of Yazidis.
Yazidis are ancientists associated with the religion of Iran. They fled their homes after the Islamic State group issued an ultimatum to convert to Islam, pay a religious fine, flee their homes or face death.
Obama said the airdrops were made at the Iraqi government's request.
Considering people. Faced with the people's fear of another protracted war. Obama acknowledged that the prospect of a new round of U.S. military action would be a cause for concern.
He vowed not to put American troops back on the ground in Iraq. He said there would be no U.S. military solution to the crisis.
However, he proposed that American troops might be attacked if the Islamic State militants advance on American troops in the northern city of Irbil and the U.S. Consulate there in the Kurdish region of Iraq.
." "When the lives of American citizens are in danger, we will do something about it," Obama said.
." "That is my duty as the commander in chief."
The.. The Pentagon said one C-17 and two C-130 cargo aircraft delivered a total of 72 bundles of food and water.
The planes delivered 5,300 gallons of water and 8,000 meatless. The planes were over the drop area for less than 15 minutes at a low altitude.
The president cast the mission to help the Yazidis in the interests of American people. When the U.S. has the unique capabilities to help avert a massacre.
Officials said the United States was ready to take on more humanitarian airdrops if necessary, but they didn't say how quickly.
People with knowledge of the plans said the Americans did not want to leave Iraq by evacuate. They said the United States was running intelligence flights over Irbil with both manned and unmanned aircraft to monitor the deteriorating conditions.
If the president were to order real strikes in Iraq, it is all but sure he would go ahead without congressional authorization.
Lawmakers left town last week for a five-week recess, and no one replied.
The White House didn't say for sure. However, officials said the White House was in contact Thursday with some lawmakers but also Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, R-Ky.
Some Republicans have called for the president to take action. Some lawmakers have said he doesn't need their approval.
BOSTON. months after winning a national title in the national university debating team field and being the title winner, Harvard's debate team has fallen to a group of New York inmates.
The fight took place at the Eastern New York Correctional. The setting is a maximum-security prison where inmates can take classes taught by college students From nearby Bard College.
Last month, they invited the Ivy League. Around for a friendly competition. This year's national champions of debate and language were invited.
The prison offers people walls. They are building a lot of a family of their very own reputation.
In two years since the free agents started a group dialogue. Those at the prison have beaten teams from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point. They also took part in discussions at the University of Vermont.
Against Harvard, people condemned by the prison forces. They were asked to defend a position they opposed. They had to argue that public schools should be allowed to turn away students whose parents had come into the United States illegally and had entered illegally.
Three students responded. A panel of neutral judges declared the inmates victorious.
Students on the Harvard team were not immediately available. Following the loss, they posted a Facebook comment.
There are hardly any teams we are prouder of losing a fight to than the phenomenally smart and articulate group we faced this weekend," they wrote.
"We also want to thank Bard and the Eastern New York Correctional Facility."
In prison, they learn without the help of the Internet. Rather, they rely on the college's resources.
MAFRAQ, Jordan. As U.S. President Barack Obama announced he was postponing missile strikes against the Syrian regime. Inside the refugee camp, anger and fear emanate.
If they'll strike, let them strike once and for all and bring the regime down." Um Hafiz is a refugee who fled with her husband and five children in January from their village.
Other people told Sunday that Obama's decision to first ask for Congress for its permission for a U.S. military operation would so embolden Syrian President Bashar Assad. He might even attack around five miles inside Jordan, where there is a major recruiting ground for rebel fighters.
" I, had been happy when we first heard that the U.S. would attack, but then when it was postponed, we were afraid that Bashar would attack the camp," said Raad Zoubi. He has lived well in the rocky, sun-stricken camp for the past year.
People are angry, but we will be happy if the Americans do attack."
Expectations were high in Baalbek. Pentagon officials said cruise-missile strikes are imminent, asserting that the Assad regime was behind an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack on a rebel-held Damascus suburb that killed at least 1,429 civilians.
Camp residents heard Obama announce this decision to drop the surgery. They could hear live broadcasts of his announcement Saturday. They were carried by Arabic-language television channels received over the satellite dishes that sprout like mushrooms.
.""Everybody was watching," said Zoubi, an experienced baker from Taybeh, outside Daara. It is the village where the anti-Assad protests that started the war against Syria erupted on March 18, 2011. it was there that the brutal civil war broke out.
Coming from a country that the Assad family has ruled for four decades. The more than 120,000 people in the camp do not seem to understand Obama's decision to go to congressional for help.
FadilIssa, 35, said many refugees think Obama called off the U.S. strikes for fear they could have triggered hostilities between the United States and Iran.
"People have been disappointed with this postponement.
They don't know why he is afraid of Iran," he said.
including the nightly return to France by refugees so tired of the camp's heat, filth, filth, boredom and crime that they willingly brave the risky border crossing to return to old homes or seek new ones.
Hus Hussein waited in the sultry late afternoon heat. He and scores of other men, women and children were waiting for the buses that would take them to unofficial border crossings maintained by the Jordanian army. They were not allowed to go into the country on their own.
They then drive to the Syrian battlefield controlled by rebels from the Free Syrian Army. It is a loose amalgam of rebel groups.
Buses are very crowded and it is first come, first served.
So the people charged the vehicles as they pulled up in clouds of choking dust and pushed and shoved their way through the doors, cramming their belongings into old suitcases and cloth bundles.
Jordanian security forces stood by. They were naked and on guard against serious violence.
The buses were followed by a truck hauling a trailer with stairs and windows cut into its sides.
It appeared to be bringing rebel fighters back into Syria as only men and teenage boys swarmed. Many pushed their bags through the windows. Others crushed their way up the stairs.
." "It is unbearable to live here," said Hafiz as she looked at the scene, her daughters clustered by her side.
"You also have rocket explosions. It's better over there."
We're not afraid of it.
Everything God has written for us is going to come to pass."
They are microorganismically maintained, which is the scientific think of. They are microscopic remains of ancient pigment granules. They offer clues to the colors of the winged dinosaurs.. The colours of the winged dinosaurs are known to have been very bright and vibrant. in the prevailing scientific view. In the prevailing scientific view, they are microscopic remains of ancient pigment granules. that offers clues to the colors of the winged dinosaurs.
But a new study has come up with a different explanation. It has ruffled a few academic feathers.
Al.ison E. Moyer, a Ph.D. student at North Carolina State University, says the cigar-shaped "microbodies," just one-millionth of a meter by one-millionth of a meter.
Their big stature and shape features do not rule out either.
" and has similar structures." said Moyer, lead author of the paper published this month.
The study is receiving a fierce response. One researcher has favoured the idea that the shapes are pigment granules.
Others in the field have been more accommodating. They have observed Moyer's work as a helpful challenge to the embedded.
This sort of give-and-take is probably more common in paleontology than else fields of science. It is because the only surefire way to answer certain questions about the ancient world is to go back in time.
It was after Moyer found a time machine. It is a living time machine: a chicken. very much like a living time machine. and it is a living time machine. in other words, a living time machine. to be able to live time machine. of the living time machine. for the living time machine. etcetera. on the other side of time machine.
Paleontologists believe birds to be modern dinosaurs, so Moyer took some chicken feathers. He then grew bacteria on them. The result was the discovery of bacteria on the feathers of the birds.
She compared the bacteria with pigment granules. She examined the bacteria, and wrote about the oblong impressions that were found in fossilized feathers from winged dinosaurs.
The. The scale, shape and direction of volcanic fossil impressions suggested bacteria, but it is still very much possible they were pigment granules.
Her work was led by Mary H. Schweitzer, N.C. State paleontologist.
Her co-protofessor was Ken lacovara. He is an associate professor of paleontology and geology at Drexel. The study was published in the Journal of paleontology.
Matthew D. Shawkey, a science teacher at the University of Akron said on Twitter that the new study was bad science.
Shawkey. Based on something proven in a 2012 study that showed that antennas of the winged dinosaur Archaeopteryx were black, Shawkey had several objections to Moyer's paper.
Most interesting was the juxtaposition of two pictures - one showing cigar-shaped bacteria on a chicken feather, the other depicting similar-shaped impressions found in a fossil feather from Archaeopteryx.
The dark shapes in both photos look about the same.
Shawkey's beef is the fact that the images are different. This means that the images are reproduced at different scale (as indicated in the fine print) and the bacteria on the feathers of the chicken are four times as long as the fossils.
." "That's not a good way to put your trust in your paper," Shawkey said.
Moyer says the bacteria are about twice the size of the fossil impressions.
(To the untrained eye. The graininess of the picture makes it hard to tell who is right.
Whilst Shawkey had sent out more than 13 tweets complaining about the paper, another scientist who interpreted the shapes as pigment granules had a more receptive attitude to Moyer's work.
." "It's always good to take a step back" said Johan Lindgren, an associate professor. He is an associate professor at the University of Sweden in Sweden.
