Chinook tribes met Lewis and Clark when they came to the Columbia in 1805.
The tribes brought them food during the winter and helped with navigation.
More than 200 years after the first contact, the Chinook Indian Nation has a tribal council and annual meetings.
However, the U.S. government does not.
"They say we're extinct, but my family lives on our land.
Lack of recognition of Chinook tribes could change a 35-year process the U.S. uses to recognize tribes.
Changes include moving the earliest date for tribes to reapply for federal recognition into the 1930s, something previously prohibited.
Federal recognition makes tribal governments and members eligible for health care and budget help, according to the BIA.
A federally recognized tribe is a sovereign nation. It has the right to create and enforce laws, determine membership criteria and regulate activities within its jurisdiction.
One change, called "Part 83," would require tribes to show influence or authority from 1934 instead of "historical times."
This could help Chinooks because the nation has more modern documentation than oral history, Elliott said, and will level the playing field.
"You can't expect tribes that didn't honor treaties to do so, especially when almost everyone was sent to school," he said. In the late 1800s, the U.S. government removed Indian children from their families and sent them to boarding schools.
"If we are anything, we are stubborn. That is why we are here.
We will not give up.
JERUSALEM - Professor Mohammed Dajani expected criticism when he went to Auschwitz site last month.
But he wasn't ready for what followed.
In online comments, Palestinian critics called it treason.
Friends advised him to keep a low profile, avoid campus and take a vacation abroad, he said.
"People said we supported Zionism and promoted propaganda," Dajani said in an interview in East Jerusalem, the Arab side of the city, which Palestinians claim as state capital.
Dajani is Al Quds University's American studies director. He heads Wasatia, which seeks to promote moderation and reconciliation among Palestinians.
He's no stranger to issue.
Dajani said he came to Auschwitz three years ago on a visit sponsored by The Aladdin Project, an organization that promotes understanding between Jews and Muslims.
"I see a lot of Holocaust denial in my community.
"People do not appreciate other people," Dajani said.
Because of its crucial role in Israel's creation, the Holocaust has political overtones in Palestinian society.
Palestinians consider the war, which followed the establishment of Israel, a "catastrophe" of similar magnitude, and recall it in annual commemorations.
"Holocaust is not taught in schools," Dajani said.
It is an ignored history, or a plot to create a Jewish state in Palestine, or Zionist propaganda?
Dajani publicly advocates Holocaust education and has taught part of his class.
The research project at Friedrich Schiller University in Jena, Germany, also included a visit to Deheishe, a Palestinian refugee camp in the West Bank.
"We didn't want to risk jeopardizing the visit, so we kept it very quiet." He added that applications were sought "by word of mouth."
The group visited Krakow before the Holocaust, visiting former Jewish areas and synagogues.
In Auschwitz, they heard from two Israelis and a Polish guide.
"I visited a Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago, but this was different," said Al Quds student Salim Sweidan.
"When you walk on land, it leaves a big impact."
"People said we sympathy the occupier, but I say no, I sympathy the people killed there," he said.
Nasser al-Qadi, a Al Quds student, said he joined the trip because it was "our humanitarian duty."
He said Israelis should know the same trauma as Palestinians following Israel's creation.
Abdullah Dweikat, a Palestinian columnist, wrote on the Watan website: "We reject the killing of any person based on religion, nationality, or political views, but we also reject the killing of our people.
Dajani, a scion of a prominent Palestinian family from Jerusalem, was active in Lebanon's Fatah movement in the 1960s and later studied in the United States.
He said Israeli hospital treatment of his father was a turning point in his view of Israelis.
"I did it because I wanted to," he said.
"I would do it again.
Three weeks ago, if you ordered a three- egg omelet at Roxanne's Cafe in Parkville, you probably would have got a five.
Roxanne's is different.
The egg means three eggs.
Roxanne's Cafe egg prices have increased in the past month.
May 5, Gray paid $17.55 per egg.
It was $42.85 last week.
Roxanne's is not alone.
Some supermarkets have increased eggs prices from 99 cents to $3.
Restaurants and bakeries around the nation are feeling the effects of the recent bird flu outbreak in the Midwest.
47 million chickens and turkeys have been lost since the virus began.
Iowa, the country's top producer, was hit hardest.
More than 30 million chickens live in Iowa.
The virus hit only 10 birds at a flock.
Despite the small number of cases, the Kansas Department of Agriculture banned live chickens and turkeys from state and county fairs in 2015.
The disease has cut egg production.
Last week, the U.S. government cut its domestic production forecast to 95.9 billion this year.
The virus hit at a time when the U.S. produced nearly 100 billion eggs last year.
Protein-rich diets are growing and last year, people ate 263 eggs on average, a 30-year high.
"The eggs were on a roll," said Kevin Burkum, American Egg Board senior vice president.
Like many cafes, Roxanne's tries to offset egg prices.
Owner Gray changed the daily specials to include meals that do not include eggs, such as goulash.
The last resort, a desperate measure: cost increase.
At the time, the wholesale price was 63 cents.
That has almost quadrupled to $2.35, said Brian Moscogiuri, Urner Barry, a trade publication.
Supermarket and bakeries are also affected by the virus.
Some are the usual suspects, like ice cream and bread, but other products are egg products, too, like makeup and shampoo.
Hen House said it had had to pass on about 40 percent of that to consumers.
It's not clear how the H5N2 virus spread from wild birds to enclosed poultry.
The virus is spread by physical contact, like bird droppings.
But Iowa State University's Hong Wei Xin believes the virus can also travel in the air and enter hatcheries and barns.
The virus is killed by heat, and outbreaks slow in summer months.
Xin hopes that by autumn, when wild birds migrate back through the Midwestern states, enough research will have been done.
But no guarantees.
The cooks didn't care how many eggs, and owner Roxanne Gray allowed it.
San Jose, Calif. scientists are planning how to pluck, park and push an asteroid between here and the moon.
While we all try to avoid space rocks, NASA has a $ 105 million plan to bring a ship to Earth.
It's the space age Muhammad to the mountain and the first step to Mars.
"Our goal is to get it into the hands of people who can understand it," said NASA Ames Research Center Director David Korsmeyer.
Asteroids command respect as a big one could play with.
February's twofer - a small and a big one - only added to the stress.
But it's also valuable, and can send us deeper space.
That's because a car is much better than a rocket.
With new NASA funds, engineers want to design a slow, sustainable solar-electric trip to find an asteroid.
It's not only the place, but the scientists.
Once it finds a suitable rock, it can push, tug or harpoon the rock.
Or maybe he could lasso it like a 21st century version of Roy Rogers.
"It has been more than 40 years since we went deep space," said G. Scott Hubbard, who designed the Mars Pathfinder mission and directed NASA Ames.
"We must get our chop," he said.
"It's a future space exploration technology."
The "Asteroid Retrieval Mission" is a major new goal for a company that has retired the shuttle fleet and set up a moon landing.
Last year, the California Institute of Technology proposed the idea at the White House Office of Science and Technology Policy.
President Obama said we would land on an asteroid by 2025.
Its reception in Congress is cooler.
To bring home an asteroid will cost much more, warned Stanford's Hubbard.
$ 105 million is only a down payment on a huge project.
Ames and other NASA centers will team up scientists to work out details.
At Ames, we can give them more tools, Korsmeyer said.
Ames scientists can use tools like their CheMin device on the Mars rover to study Martian rock composition.
Ames can also find an asteroid.
Most asteroids are too far away to be useful.
Some are great.
But small ones, like a dump truck, can be grabbed by unmanned ships, NASA says.
Asteroids formed about 4.6 billion years ago and hold clues about our origins and possibly gold.
Although the main goal is not to protect Earth from an asteroid, the technology could help divert a larger rogue asteroid, said former astronaut Tom Jones.
It will be hard to find the perfect asteroid because it will be too small.
They don't want to be caught.
NASA calls it "unstable."
It is moving at 17,000 mph, in its own orbit.
It may not even be solid, but just ice sliding.
Then comes the catch it.
Korsmeyer calls it a "math" game.
Catch the baseball on the ferris wheel.
Once caught, it was pulled or pushed close to the moon.
There, ships would come and chip off chunks.
Astronomers will visit it.
"It's no small task," Korsmeyer said.
"You're trying to put a ball in the pocket."
On June 28, 2009, Stephen Hawking threw a party at the University of Cambridge with iced champagne and balloons.
All were invited but none showed up.
Hawking sent out the invitations only after his party ended.
It was, he said, "a welcome party for future time travelers." It was a tongue-in-cheek test of his 1992 conjecture.
Hawking is on the wrong side of history.
Recent studies support time travel at least from a mathematical point of view.
The study goes to the heart of our understanding of the universe. Time travel far from being a science fiction topic, but its implications for practical applications such as quantum cryptography and computing.
The best physical theories seem to contain no prohibition to travel back in time.
Einstein's general relativity theory describes gravity as the warping of space by matter and energy.
An extremely strong gravitational field, like that of a black hole, could warp spacetime so that it bends back.
This would create a CTC, or closed timelike curve, to travel back.
Hawking and many other physicists reject CTCs, as any such object would create paradoxes of cause and effect.
However, in a 1991 model proposed by David Deutsch, quantum paradoxes can be avoided because fundamental particles only follow fuzzy probability rules rather than strict determinism.
Ralph and his PhD student Martin Ringbauer recently tested and confirmed many aspects of Deutsch's CTCs model.
Much of Deutsch's model has dealt with the "grandfather paradox," where someone uses a CTC to travel back in time to kill his own grandfather to prevent later birth.
The quantum grandfather paradox works like this:
Instead of going through a CTC to kill your ancestor, imagine turning a switch on the machine that created it.
If the particle turns, the machine sends a particle back to the CTC. If it doesn't, it sends nothing.
There is no deterministic certainty a priori, only a probability distribution.
In quantum theory, Deutsch insisted that any particle entering one end of a CTC must emerge at the other end with equal properties.
If the particle were a person, it would be born with a one-half chance of killing her grandfather and one-half chance of life. Good enough to close the causative loop and escape the paradox.
This solution is against known quantum mechanics laws.
In their new simulation, Ralph, Ringbauer and their colleagues used Deutsch's model to study a quantum system that they claim is mathematically equivalent to a CTC.
"We encode the second as a previous incarnation of the first," says Ringbauer.
So instead of giving a person a time loop, they made a stunt double and ran it through a time-loop simulator to see if it would exactly resemble the original person.
"Of course, we're not going back in time, but we can study weird evolutions in quantum mechanics."
Those " weird evolutions" enabled by a CTC, Ringbauer says, could break quantum cryptography by cloning basic particles.
" quantum mechanics allows CTCs to do much more information processing than we think normal or classical quantum computers can," said Todd Brun, a physicist at the University of Southern California.
But this cannot test the Deutsch model itself, which can be done only with a CTC."
But Deutsch's isn't the only one.
In 2009, Massachusetts Institute of Technology theorist Seth Lloyd proposed a less radical alternative to Deutsch's grandfather paradox using quantum teleportation and postselection.
Lloyd went on to run successful laboratory simulations in 2011.
A Deutschian CTC traveler enters a universe that has nothing to do with the one she left.
By contrast, post-selected CTCs maintain correlation. The time traveler returns to the past."
However, Lloyd accepts the speculative nature.
"I don't know which model is right.
Both might be wrong," he said.
Of course, the other possibility is that Hawking is right and CTCs do not exist.
Time travel party planners should save the champagne for themselves.
They're probably human, a team of researchers say.
A new study of some ocean species found an elegant and surprising ratio in their motion.
The study in PLOS Biology shows a surprising convergent evolution of unrelated animals - and could help engineers build better robots.
At Northwestern University, a team of researchers began studying the black ghost knifefish.
The black ghost knifefish lives in South America primarily using an underside undulating fin.
Unlike other well-known fish such as trout or salmon, which move their tail back and forth.
The knifefish uses a wave to move its thin fin, which runs the length of its body.
Fin swimmers are an entire host of sea critters. Some have a single fin, while others have a pair, one on each side.
In their previous work on the ghost black knifefish, scientists found the fish maximum speed when a total of two waves could fit across its fin.
They studied 22 different finned swimmers using video, computer modeling and lab studies to find out if any pattern.
They did find a pattern, but it wasn't what they expected.
Every wiggle of the fish's fin is 20 times the length of a wide wiggle.
For each species they studied - rays, skates, cuttlefish and Persian carpet flatworm - the ratio remained 20 to 1.
The researchers think this movement pattern has emerged at least eight times because it maximizes speed ability.
And if complex alien life used a fin to swim on another planet, this same ratio would probably emerge, said Northwestern's Malcolm MacIver.
The results may help scientists better build underwater robots that swim quickly.
Obama authorized U.S. airstrikes on Thursday night in northern Iraq, warning them to protect civilians under siege and defend Americans.
In a late-night White House statement, Obama said American planes had already carried out airdrops of food and water to Iraqi minorities surrounded by militants.
"America is here to help," he said.
It was the deepest American involvement in Iraq since U.S. troops left in late 2011.
Obama, in his statement, called the Iraq war "dumb" and much of his legacy on ending it.
Food and water have helped tens of thousands of Yazidis without food or water.
The Yazidis, who follow an ancient religion called Zoroastrianism, were ordered to convert to Islam, face death or pay a religious fine.
Obama said he made the airdrops at Iraqi request.
Mindful of public antipathy to war, Obama said a new round of U.S. military action would cause concern.
He vowed not to return combat troops to Iraq and said there was no U.S. military option.
Even so, he said he would air strikes if Islamic State advances on American troops in Irbil and the U.S. consulate.
"We take action when American lives are at risk," Obama said.
"That's my job as head of state."
The Pentagon said one C-17 and two C-130 cargo aircraft delivered 72 packages of food and water.
The planes brought 5,300 gallons of water and 8,000 meals. They were at low altitude for less than 15 minutes.
The mission to help the Yazidis is part of the U.S. mandate to help around the world.
Officials said the United States was ready to carry out more airdrops if needed, but did not say how soon.
No plans were made to evacuate Americans from Iraq but intelligence flights over Irbil were carried out with both manned and unmanned aircraft.
If he did, he would all but certain to order airstrikes without formal congressional approval.
Lawmakers left for a five-week recess last week and did not return.
But the White House was in contact with some lawmakers on Thursday, including Ohio's John Boehner and Kentucky's Mitch McConnell.
Some Republicans have called for the president to take action, but he has said no thanks.
After winning a national title, Harvard's debate team lost to a New York team.
The incident happened at a maximum-security prison where inmates can take courses from nearby Bard College, and have formed a popular debate club.
Ivy League students and this year's national debate champions came over last month.
Inmates are building their own reputation.
In the two years since, the prisoners have beaten the U.S. Military Academy and the University of Vermont.
In support of Harvard, they had to claim that schools should be allowed to turn away students whose parents have come illegally.
Three students from Harvard responded, and a neutral judge gave them a win.
Harvard students were not immediately available for comment, but soon after the loss.
"There are few teams we have lost a debate to than the team we faced this weekend," he wrote.
"We thank Bard and the Eastern New York Correctional Facility for their work and this event."
While in jail, they learn online but instead use college resources.
AFRAQ, Jordan - When U.S. President Barack Obama said he would delay Syrian missile strikes, so did anger and fear.
"Let them strike once and for all," said Um Hafiz, who fled her village in southern Syria in January with her husband and five children.
Other residents on Sunday said Obama's decision to first seek congressional approval would so embolden Syrian President Assad to attack the rebel-held city of Zaatari, about five miles inside Jordan.
"We were happy when we first heard that the U.S. would attack, but then we were afraid Bashar would attack the camp," 23-year-old Raad Zoubi said.
"People are angry, but we will be happy if they attack."
Expectations were high in the city after the United States said it had "with high confidence" determined the Assad regime was behind an Aug. 21 chemical attack in Damascus that killed at least 1,429 civilians.
Camp residents heard Obama's decision to delay on live TV Saturday, carried by Arabic-language channels over satellite dishes sprout on Zaatari's trash-strewn streets like mushrooms.
"Everyone was watching," said Zoubi, a 23-year-old baker from Taybeh, where anti-Assad protests began on March 18, 2011.
Coming from a country ruled by the Assad family for four decades, most of the camp's more than 120,000 residents are unlikely to understand the U.S. intervention.
Fadil Issa, a 35-year-old refugee who has fled his village near Daara to the Zaatari, said many refugees think Obama called off the U.S. strikes for fear of war.
"People do not like the delay.
I don't know why they fear Iran," he said.
Refugees so tired of the heat, filth and crime in Syria, they willingly cross the border to return to old homes or find new ones.
Hussein waited in the heat with scores of other men, women and children to leave them at the Jordanian military's unofficial border crossings.
From there they went to Syrian rebel-controlled territory.
Buses are limited and first come, first served.
So the crowd charged the cars as they pulled up, pushing and shoving through the doors.
Three armored cars of Jordan's security forces stood by, guard against violence.
The buses were ahead of a truck with windows cut into its sides and rear-side stairs.
It appeared to be bringing rebel fighters back into Syria as only men and teenage boys crowded into the trailer. Some pushed their way through the windows.
"It's bad here," said Hafiz, watching the scene with her daughters near.
"It's better over there even with rocket.
We are not afraid.
All that God has written shall happen.
They are thought to be ancient pigment granules that give clues to winged dinosaurs.
But a new study by a Drexel graduate offers a different explanation.
Alison E. Moyer, a Ph.D. student at North Carolina State University, says the tiny microorganisms may simply be old bacteria impressions.
Its size and shape, among other features, cannot be ruled out.
"We need to be careful," said Moyer, the lead author of the paper in the journal Scientific Reports.
A researcher who favors the interpretation is that the shapes are melanosomes or pigment granules.
Moyer's work has been accepted by others as a useful challenge to established view.
Paleontology gives-and-take is perhaps more common than other science because the only surefire way to answer questions is to travel back in time.
Moyer found a time machine: a chicken.
Birds are considered modern dinosaurs, so Moyer took feathers and grew bacteria.
She compared the bacteria to the pigment granules found in fossilized feathers of winged dinosaurs.
The size, shape and distribution of the impressions suggested bacteria, but he said.
N.C. state paleontologist Mary H. Schweitzer did the work.
His co-authors are Ken Lacovara, Drexel paleontology and geology teacher.
University of Akron professor Matthew D. Shawkey said on Twitter the new research was "bad science."
Shawkey, who led a 2012 study on Archaeopteryx feathers, had many objections to Moyer's paper.
The two images - one shows cigar-shaped bacteria on a chicken feather, the other shows impressions from Archaeopteryx fossil feathers.
The two images in look about the same size.
Shawkey's beef is that the images are different scale and that the bacteria in the feathers is four times longer than in the fossils.
"That's not a good way to put trust," Shawkey said.
Moyer says the bacteria is about twice as long as the fossil.
The graininess of the image makes it hard to tell who is right.
While Shawkey sent more than a dozen tweets objecting to the paper, another scientist was more receptive to Moyer's work.
"It's always good to take a step back," said Sweden's associate professor.
