The Chinook tribes
The tribes helped members of the expedition through the winter. They brought them food and helped with navigation.
The five tribes now make up the Chinook Indian Nation. They have a constitution, a tribal council and annual meetings.
They are not recognized by the U.S. government.
"They say
The Chinook tribes do not have formal recognition from the United States. The government wants to change that.
Changes include moving the earliest date from which tribes must provide documentation of their existence into the 1930s. They also allow tribes to reapply for federal recognition under certain circumstances.
Federal recognition
A federally recognized tribe is a country that has a government-to-government relationship with the United States. The tribe has the right to make and enforce laws, regulate activities within its jurisdiction and determine membership criteria.
One proposed change would make sure tribes have to show community and political influence or authority from 1934 rather than from "historical times." Under current law, tribes have to show community and political influence or authority from 1934 rather than from "historical times," the requirement in existing law.
The nation has more information about the Chinooks than the Indians did, Elliott said. It will help "level the playing field" for all tribes seeking recognition.
"You can't expect the tribes whose treaties weren't honored to get paperwork, especially when almost everyone was sent to boarding school," Elliott said.
"But if there is one thing we are, we are stubborn, which is the reason we are still here.
"We are not giving up.
Professor Mohammed Dajani is a professor at the University of Minnesota. He took Palestinian students to Poland last month. They visited the site of the Auschwitz concentration camp.
But he wasn't prepared for the uproar that followed.
Some
People
"People said we were giving support to Zionism and promoting its propaganda, as if we were giving up on our rights," Dajani said.
Dajani is the director of the American studies program at Al Quds University. He heads an organization called Wasatia. Its goal is to promote moderation and reconciliation among Palestinians. These values often seem in short supply in the festering conflict with Israel.
He is no stranger to controversy.
Dajani said the idea of taking students to Auschwitz took shape after he made a journey to the site three years ago.
"In my community you see a lot of ignorance of the Holocaust, denial of the Holocaust.
"People don't want to recognize the suffering of the other," Dajani said.
Many think that their people have paid the price for the persecution of the Jews in Europe.
The war that followed the establishment of Israel is known as the "catastrophe." Jews will mark Holocaust Remembrance Day this year. Palestinians consider their mass displacement and expulsion in the war that followed the establishment of Israel a "catastrophe" of similar magnitude. They recall it in annual commemorations.
"The Holocaust is not taught in Palestinian schools and universities," Dajani said.
"It is a history ignored, mentioned as part of a plot to establish a Jewish state in Palestine, or as Zionist propaganda with exaggerated figures," he said.
Dani has advocated for more education about the Holocaust.
The trip to Auschwitz was part of a research project. The project also included a visit by Israeli students to Deheishe, a Palestinian refugee camp in the West Bank.
The trip
The trip included a trip to Krakow. They learned about Jewish life before the Holocaust. They visited former Jewish neighborhoods and synagogues.
In Auschwitz, the group heard from two Holocaust survivors. They were brought by the Israelis. They were accompanied by a Polish guide.
"I visited the Holocaust museum in Jerusalem three years ago, but here it was different," said Salim Sweidan, a former graduate student at Al Quds who joined the trip.
"When you step on the soil where millions were killed, it leaves a big impression."
"People accused us of showing sympathy with the occupier, but I say no, this was sympathy with the human beings who were killed there," Sweidan added.
Nasser al-Qadi is a student at Al Quds. He said he joined the trip because it was "our humanitarian duty, regardless of our rift with the Israeli side."
He said Israelis should recognize the trauma of displacement and expulsion that accompanied the creation of Israel.
Abdullah Dweikat is a columnist at Watan. He wrote on the website. "We reject the extermination of any human being because of his religion, nationality or political views, but our humanity also rejects disregarding the wounds and pain of our people, who are being slaughtered every day at the hands of the occupiers.
Dajani is the son of a prominent Palestinian family from Jerusalem. He studied later in the United States. He was allowed back by Israel to his native city in 1993 to care for his father, who was ill with cancer.
He said the treatment of his father and other Arab patients at an Israeli hospital was a turning point. He used to think that Israelis were the ones who oppressed Arabs.
"I'm doing it because it's the right thing to do," he said.
"I would do it again."
KANSAS CITY, Mo. — Three weeks ago, if you ordered a three-egg omelet from Roxanne's Cafe in the Kansas City suburb of Parkville, you would probably get a five-egg omelet instead.
Today, Roxanne
A three-egg omelet means three eggs.
Egg prices at Roxanne's Cafe have gone up a lot in the past month.
On May 5, Gray paid $17.55 per 15 dozen eggs.
Last week, she paid $42.85.
Roxanne's Cafe is not alone.
Some supermarkets have seen prices for a dozen eggs go up from 99 cents to $3 in the past few weeks.
Cafes, restaurants and bakeries around the nation are feeling the pain. A new disease is spreading through the Midwest. It is called bird flu.
Farmers have lost 47 million hens and turkeys since the virus began spreading a few months ago.
The country's top egg-producing state, Iowa, has been hit the hardest.
More than 30 million hens in Iowa have been affected.
In Kansas, 10 birds were killed by the virus.
Last week, the Kansas Department of Agriculture banned chickens, turkeys and other live birds from appearing at state and county fairs in 2015.
The
Last week, the U.S. Department of Agriculture (USDA) lowered its forecast for domestic production this year. It said it would be 95.9 billion.
The
Last year, each person ate 263 eggs. That's a 30-year high.
Kevin Burkum
Roxanne's is probably trying to make up for high egg prices.
She changed the daily specials to include meals that don't include eggs. She changed the daily specials to
Gray winced at the thought of the last
Before the outbreak, a dozen breaking eggs cost 63 cents.
That has almost quadrupled to $2.35, according to Brian Moscogiuri. He writes about the food industry for Urner Barry.
Besides restaurants and bakeries, supermarkets are also grappling with the consequences of the virus.
Eggs are used to make things like mayonnaise, marshmallow cream, makeup and shampoo.
Hen House said its costs have gone up about 40 percent in the last couple of weeks. It has had to pass some of that on to consumers.
It's not clear how the virus got to poultry packed in enclosed facilities. wild birds carry the H5N2 virus.
Scientists think the virus is passed through contact between birds.
Hongwei Xin is a professor at Iowa State University. He thinks the virus can travel through the air and into cracks of hatcheries and barns.
Heat kills the virus. The number of cases is expected to go down in the summer.
By the time the summer gives way to autumn and wild birds migrate down through the Midwestern states once again, enough research will have been done to prevent further outbreaks.
But there are no guarantees.
Cooks weren't too concerned about how many eggs they scooped into the frying pan.
SAN, Calif. — Scientists are planning how to move an asteroid between here and the moon.
Most of us hope to avoid space rocks. But NASA wants to drag one closer to Earth. It will spend $105 million to do this.
It's the Space Age equivalent of bringing the mountain to Muhammad and a first step in our future voyage to Mars.
"Our goal is to go out there and rendezvous — then get it into the hands of the people who can understand it," said David Korsmeyer. He is director of the NASA Ames Research Center. It will contribute to the project.
A big one could play us like a billiard ball.
February's two
But they're also valuable. Scientists are thinking about trying one. Doing so could launch us into deeper space.
We'll need a vehicle a whole lot better than a fuel-driven rocket.
Scientists hope to make a solar-electric vehicle. The vehicle would make a slow, steady and sustainable trip to find an asteroid. NASA gave the money to make the solar-electric vehicle.
Scientists love the journey, not just the destination.
After finding a suitable space rock, the spaceship might push, tug or harpoon the asteroid.
It
It has been more than 40 years since the United States has been to deep space, said Stanford University aeronautics professor G. Scott Hubbard. He led the Mars Pathfinder mission and formerly directed NASA Ames.
"We need to regain our 'chops,' " he said.
"It's a demonstration of space exploration technologies for the future."
The government wants to return an asteroid to the United States. It has retired the shuttle fleet and grounded a moon-landing plan. Now, it wants to return an asteroid to the United States.
Last year, a group at the California Institute of Technology suggested the idea. The White House Office of Science and Technology Policy thought it was a good idea.
President Barack Obama said in his last space speech that we would land on an asteroid by 2025.
There's a cooler reception in the budget-wrangling Congress.
Scientists
The project could cost billions of dollars.
In the summer, Ames and other NASA research centers will gather their scientists to work out the details.
At Ames, "we can provide tools that make the mission more successful," Korsmeyer said.
Am
Ames could also build sensors to help find an asteroid.
Most asteroids live too far away to be useful when they're not crashing into, for example, Russia.
Some are big and some are small.
But smaller spaceships might be easier to grab, NASA says.
Asteroids are the rubble left from the formation of our solar system about 4.6 billion years ago. They hold clues about our origins and, perhaps, valuable metals.
The main goal is not to protect the Earth from an errant space rock. The technology could be used to divert a larger, rogue asteroid, said planetary scientist Tom Jones. He is an adviser to the asteroid-seeking B612 Foundation.
The hunt won't be easy. The perfect asteroid will be too small to reflect light.
It doesn't want to be
NASA calls it "an uncooperative object."
It will be moving at 17,000 mph. It will be happy in its own orbit, and spinning like a top.
It may not even be solid, like granite, but just a tumbling bunch of rocky ice.
Then there's the challenge of catching it.
Korsmeyer calls it complicated "math game."
Picture trying to catch a baseball while on a Ferris wheel.
It would be slowly pushed or pulled, and nudged close to the moon.
There, remote-controlled ships would arrive to chip off chunks for study.
Eventually, astronauts would visit it.
"It's not a trivial undertaking," Korsmeyer said.
"You are lining up a whole set of moving balls to try to put one in the pocket."
On June 28, 2009, the world-famous physicist Stephen Hawking threw a party at the University of Cambridge. There were balloons, hors d'oeuvres and iced champagne.
Everyone was invited but no one showed up.
Hawking had expected as much, because he only sent out invitations after his party had concluded.
He said that travel into the past is effectively impossible.
But Hawking may be on the wrong side of history.
Recently, scientists were starting to think that time travel could happen.
The study could have huge implications for physics and for practical applications such as quantum cryptography and computing.
The reason is that our best physical theories seem to contain no prohibitions on traveling backward through time.
Einstein's theory of gravity says that gravity is the warping of spacetime by energy and matter.
An extremely powerful gravitational field could warp the fabric of existence so that spacetime bends back on itself.
This would create a "closed timelike curve." This curve could be traversed to travel back in time.
Many
David Deutsch proposed a model in 1991. He said that CTCs could be avoided at the quantum scale because of the behavior of fundamental particles. Those particles follow only the fuzzy rules of probability rather than strict determinism.
Recently, Ralph and his student Martin Ringbauer led a team that tested the theory. The team tested many aspects of the two-decades-old theory.
The
Deutsch's
Instead of a human being traversing a CTC to kill her ancestor, imagine that a fundamental particle goes back in time to flip a switch on the particle-generating machine that created it.
If the particle flips the switch, the machine emits a particle—the particle—back into the CTC. If the switch isn't flipped, the machine emits nothing.
In this case, there is no certainty about where the particle comes from. There is only a distribution of probabilities.
Deutsch's idea was to show that any particle entering one end of a CTC must emerge at the other end of a CTC must emerge at the other end with identical properties.
If the particle were a person, she would be born with a one-half probability of killing her grandfather. That would give her grandfather a one-half probability of escaping death at her hands.
The solution is in line with the known laws of quantum mechanics.
Ralph, Ringbauer and their coworkers studied Deutsch and his coworkers studied
"We encode their polarization so that the second one acts as kind of a past incarnation of the first," Ringbauer says.
They created a doppelganger of the person. Then they ran him through a time-loop simulator. They checked if the doppelganger resembled the original person as he was in that moment in the past.
"Of course, we're not really sending anything back in time but [the simulation] allows us to study weird evolutions normally not allowed in quantum mechanics."
A CTC could be used to break quantum-based cryptography through the cloning of the quantum states of fundamental particles. Such a CTC could be used to break quantum-based cryptography.
Todd Brun is a physicist at the University of Southern California. He was not involved with the team's experiment. He says CTCs allow you to do very powerful things.
But this experiment cannot test the Deutsch model itself. That could only be done with access to an actual CTC, he said.
The
Seth Lloyd is a scientist at the Massachusetts Institute of Technology. He suggested a way to solve the grandfather paradox. It would use a technique called post-selection, rather than Deutsch's quantum self-consistency.
L went on to work with scientists in Canada and the United States.
"That is, a time traveler who emerges from a Deutschian CTC enters a universe that has nothing to do with the one she exited in the future.
By
Lloyd agrees that CTCs are risky.
"I have no idea which model is really right.
Probably both of them are wrong," he says.
The other possibility is that Hawking is correct, he says. CTCs simply don't and cannot exist.
Time-travel party planners should save the champagne for themselves. Their hoped-for future guests seem unlikely to arrive.
A team of researchers says the moon could be a lot like Earth.
A new study found some surprising things about how certain fish move in the ocean.
Scientists are learning more about how animals change over time. They could help make better swimming robots.
A team of researchers at Northwestern University first began to wonder about common rules of movement after studying the black ghost knifefish.
The black ghost knifefish lives in South America. It moves around by using a fin attached to its underside.
This is different from fish like trout or salmon. Those fish move their tail back and forth.
Instead, the knifefish creates a wave down its body. The wave runs most of the length of its body.
There are a lot of sea creatures that move like this. Some have a single fin running along the length of their bodies. Others have a pair, one on each side.
The scientists noticed something else about how fast the fish moves. They noticed that the fish moves when a total of two waves of motion could fit across the length of its fin. They wondered whether there might be a common rule across different species.
The scientists studied 22 different kinds of swimmers. They used video recordings, lab studies and computer modeling. They tried to find out why.
They found that there was a pattern in their motion. It wasn't quite what they expected.
Every full back-and-forth wiggle of the fish's fin was 20 times as long as the wiggle was wide.
For each species they studied, that ratio remained 20 to 1.
The researchers think that this pattern of movement has happened at least eight times.
If complex alien life were ever to be found on another planet using a fin to swim, this same ratio would probably emerge, said Patankar's co-lead author, Malcolm MacIver. He is a professor at Northwestern University.
Scientists could learn how to better build underwater robots. The robots would have to be able to swim quickly and efficiently.
WASHINGTON — President Barack Obama authorized U.S. airstrikes in northern Iraq on Thursday night. He said the airstrikes would be used if needed to defend Americans from advancing Islamic militants and protect civilians under siege.
Obama said American military planes already had carried out airdrops of humanitarian aid. Tens of thousands of Iraqi religious minorities were surrounded by militants and desperately in need of food and water.
"Today America is coming to help," he declared.
The United States has been in Iraq for nearly 10 years.
Obama has said he wants to end the "dumb war" in Iraq.
The food and water came from the United States. Tens of thousands of Yazidis were trapped on a mountain without food and water.
The Yazidis follow an ancient religion called Zoroastrianism. They were told by the Islamic State group to convert to Islam or leave their homes.
Obama said the humanitarian airdrops were made at the request of the Iraqi government.
Many Americans do not want to see another war.
He vowed anew not to put American combat troops back on the ground in Iraq. He said there was no U.S. military solution to the crisis.
He
"When the lives of American citizens are at risk, we will take action," Obama said.
"That's my responsibility as commander in chief."
The Defense Department said one C-17 and two C-130 cargo aircraft flew the airdrops. They delivered 72 bundles of food and water.
The planes were over the drop area for less than 15 minutes. They delivered 5,300 gallons of fresh drinking water and 8,000 pre-packaged meals.
The president said the U.S. has to help people around the world.
Officials said the United States was prepared to provide more aid. They did not say how quickly those missions could occur.
Officials said there were no plans to evacuate those Americans from Iraq. However, the United States was doing more intelligence flights over Irbil.
If the president were to order actual airstrikes in Iraq, it's all but certain he would not have the permission of Congress.
Lawmakers left town last week for a five-week recess. There was no sign that Congress was being called back.
Officials said the White House was in contact throughout Thursday with some lawmakers. They included House Speaker John Boehner, a Republican from Ohio. Senate Minority Leader Mitch McConnell, a Republican from Kentucky, also spoke with the White House.
Some Republicans want the president to take action. They say he doesn't need the approval of lawmakers.
The
The fight took place at a maximum-security prison in New York. Inmates there can take classes taught by professors from nearby Bard College. They also have a popular debate club.
Last month, they invited the Ivy League undergraduates and this year's national debate champions over for a friendly competition.
But the inmates are
In the two years since they started a debate club, the prisoners have beaten teams from the U.S. Military Academy at West Point and the University of Vermont.
The inmates had to argue that public schools should be allowed to turn away students whose parents entered the United States illegally.
Three students from Harvard's team responded. A panel of neutral judges declared the inmates victorious.
Students on the Harvard team weren't immediately available for comment. However, they posted a comment on a team Facebook page.
"There are few teams we are prouder of having lost a debate to than the phenomenally intelligent and articulate team we faced this weekend," they wrote.
"And we are incredibly thankful to Bard and the Eastern New York Correctional Facility for the work they do and for organizing this event."
While in prison, the students cannot use the Internet. They have to rely on resources provided by the college.
AFRAQ, Jordan
"If they're going to strike, let them strike once and for all and bring the regime down," said Um Hafiz. She fled with her husband and five children from their village near Syria's southern city of Daara in January.
Other residents said Sunday that they worried that Obama's decision to first seek congressional authorization for a U.S. They worried that Obama's
Raad Zoubi is a 23-year-old who has lived in the camp for the past year.
"People are angry, but when the Americans do attack, we will be happy they do."
The United States said last week that it had determined that the Assad regime was behind an Aug. 21 chemical weapons attack. At least 1,429 people were killed.
The
"Everybody was watching," said Zoubi, 23. He is a baker from Taybeh, a village outside Daara. The anti-Assad protests that led to the brutal civil war erupted on March 18, 2011.
Most of the camp's more than 120,000 residents come from a country that has been ruled by the Assad family for more than 40 years.
Fadil Issa, 35, has been in Zaatari since leaving his village near Daara eight months ago. He said many refugees think Obama called off the U.S. strikes for fear they could have triggered hostilities between the United States and Iran. Iran is one of Assad's main allies.
"People are unhappy by this postponement.
They don't understand why he's afraid of Iran," he said.
The nightly return to Syria by refugees is common. Many are so tired of the camp's heat, filth, tedium and crime that they willingly brave the risky border crossing to return to old homes or seek new ones.
Hussein waited in the heat with scores of other men, women and children. The buses would leave them at unofficial border crossings maintained by the Jordanian military.
From there, they were to walk to Syrian territory controlled by rebels of the Free Syrian Army. The Free Syrian Army is a loose amalgam of rebel groups.
Seats on the buses are
So the crowd charged the vehicles as they pulled up in clouds of choking dust. They pushed and shoved through the doors, their meager possessions stuffed in cloth bundles and old suitcases.
Three armored cars stood by. They were on guard against serious violence.
The buses were driven by a truck. The truck had windows cut into its sides and stairs that swung down from the rear.
It appeared to be bringing rebel fighters back into Syria. Men and teenage boys crowded into the trailer. Some pushed their bags through the windows before clambering through, others crushed their way up the stairs into the rear.
"It's unbearable to live here," said Hafiz as she watched the scene. Several of her daughters were by her side.
"Even with rocket explosions, it's better over there.
"We're not afraid.
Whatever Allah has written for us will happen."
The scientists think the remains are the remains of ancient pigment granules. They could be the last link to the colors of winged dinosaurs.
But a new study proposes a different explanation.
The "microbodies" are just one-millionth of a meter long. They might be left by very old bacteria, says Alison E. Moyer. She is a professor at North Carolina State University.
Their size and shape do not rule out either interpretation, she says.
Moyer is the lead author of a paper. It was published this month in the journal Scientific Reports. "You have these little structures that look very similar, and so we have to be careful," he said.
One researcher thinks the shapes are
Others in the field have been more accepting of Moyer's work. They acknowledge it as a helpful challenge to established views.
Paleontology is a science where you have to give and take. For example, you may have to travel back in a time machine to find out more about the ancient world.
Moyer found a way to time travel. He used a remote-controlled car and a chicken.
Paleontologists consider birds to be modern dinosaurs. So Moyer took chicken feathers and grew bacteria on them.
She compared the bacteria with the pigment granules inside the feathers. She also compared them with the oblong impressions found in fossilized feathers from winged dinosaurs.
The size, shape, and distribution of the fossil impressions suggested bacteria, she said. It is still possible that they were pigment granules, she said.
Her work was overseen by prominent N.C. State paleontologist Mary H. Schweitzer.
She is a professor at Drexel University.
Shawkey is a professor at the University of Akron. He said the new research was "bad science."
Shawkey was involved in a 2012 study. He said the feathers of the winged dinosaur Archaeopteryx were black.
The
At first glance, the dark shapes in the two images look about the same.
Shawkey's beef is that the images are reproduced at different sizes. He says the bacteria on the chicken feathers are actually four times as long as the impressions in the fossils.
"That's not a good way to give confidence in your paper," Shawkey said.
Moyer
To the untrained eye, the graininess of the image makes it a bit hard to tell who is right.
Shawkey wrote more than a dozen tweets objecting to the paper. Another scientist, Claudia Moyer, thinks the shapes are pigment granules. She would like to see more done about them.
"It's always good to take one step back," said Johan Lindgren. He is a professor at Lund University in Sweden.
